
Cluster 0 (Total Articles: 3):
The House panel investigating the Jan. 6 insurrection at the Capitol has identified a roughly 8-hour gap in official White House records of then-President Donald Trump’s phone calls as the violence unfolded and his supporters stormed the building Jan. 6 investigation uncovers 7-hour gap in White House call records WASHINGTON -- The House panel investigating the Jan. 6 insurrection at the Capitol has identified an almost 8-hour gap in official White House records of then-President Donald Trump's phone calls as the violence unfolded and his supporters stormed the building, according to two people familiar with the probe. The gap extends from a little after 11 a.m. to about 7 p.m. on Jan. 6, 2021, and involves White House phone calls, according to one of the people. Both spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the ongoing investigation. The committee is investigating the gap in the official White House log, which includes the switchboard and a daily record of the president's activities. But it does not mean the panel is in the dark about what Trump was doing during that time. The House panel has made broad requests for separate cell phone records and has talked to more than 800 witnesses, including many of the aides who spent the day with Trump. The committee also has thousands of texts from the cell phone of Mark Meadows, who was then Trump's chief of staff. The committee’s effort to piece together Trump’s day as his supporters broke into the Capitol underscores the challenge that his habitual avoidance of records laws poses — not only to historians of his tumultuous four years but to the House panel, which intends to capture the full story of the former president’s attempt to overturn the election results in hearings and reports later this year. The committee has trained a particular focus on what the president was doing in the White House as hundreds of his supporters beat police, broke into the Capitol and interrupted the certification of Democrat Joe Biden’s 2020 presidential election victory. The missing records raise questions of whether Trump purposefully circumvented official channels to avoid records. Trump was known to use other people’s cell phones to make calls, as well as his own. He often bypassed the White House switchboard, placing calls directly, according to a former aide who requested anonymity to discuss the private calls. It is not unusual for presidential calls to be channeled through other people. It is unclear whether the committee has obtained records of cell phone calls made that day. The panel issued a broad records preservation order in August to almost three dozen telecommunications and social media companies, demanding that the companies save communications for several hundred people in case Congress decided to issue subpoenas for them. Individuals included in that request included Trump, members of his family and several of his Republican allies in Congress. The committee also is continuing to receive records from the National Archives and other sources, which could produce additional information and help produce a full picture of the president's communications. While hundreds of people have cooperated with the probe, in some cases the panel has been hampered by Trump's assertions of executive privilege over material and interviews. Courts have overruled his efforts to block some documents, but many witnesses who are still close to the former president — and several who were in the White House that day — have declined to answer the committee's questions. Biden, who has authority as the sitting president over his predecessor's White House privilege claims, said Tuesday he would reject Trump's claims concerning the testimony of his daughter, Ivanka Trump, and her husband, Jared Kushner. Kushner, who was one of Trump's top White House aides, is scheduled for an interview with the panel on Thursday. The committee has requested an interview with Ivanka Trump as well, but has not said whether she will comply. During the roughly eight hours on Jan. 6, Trump addressed a huge crowd of supporters at the nearby Ellipse, repeated falsehoods about his election defeat and told them to walk to the Capitol, make their voices heard and “fight like hell.” He then returned to the White House and watched as the mob broke into the Capitol. More than 700 people have been arrested in the violence. Several of Trump's calls that day are already publicly known. He spoke to Vice President Mike Pence between 11 a.m. and 11:30, according to a person familiar with that conversation, as he had been lobbying Pence publicly and privately to object while presiding over the certification. He also spoke with several GOP members of the House and Senate as his allies in Congress were preparing to challenge the official vote count. He had a tense conversation with House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy, who asked him to call off the mob, according to Republican Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler of Washington state, who shared McCarthy's account shortly after the insurrection. Trump responded that the rioters must be "more upset about the election than you are," according to Herrera Beutler. Trump also talked to Ohio Rep. Jim Jordan and Sen. Tommy Tuberville of Alabama, among other lawmakers. Tuberville has said he spoke to the president while the Senate was being evacuated. Utah Sen. Mike Lee has said that Trump accidentally called him when he was trying to reach Tuberville. The White House log does show calls Trump made before that time period, as he was preparing to speak at the rally. That log shows calls with his former aide Steve Bannon, conservative commentator William Bennett and Sean Hannity of Fox News, according to one of the people familiar with the records. The gap in the phone records was previously reported by the AP. The exact length of time of the gap was first reported jointly by The Washington Post and CBS News. Trump had no immediate comment Tuesday, but he has previously disparaged the investigation and sued to stop records production. ——— Associated Press writer Zeke Miller contributed to this report.

The president gives remarks Wednesday afternoon about the state of the pandemic. Pres. Biden gives COVID-19 remarks, gets 2nd booster: ABC News Live President Joe Biden will receive his second booster shot following his scheduled remarks Wednesday about the state of the country's COVID response, according to the White House. Biden's speech to to promote the launch of COVID.gov, a new website the White House is billing as a "one-stop shop" to help Americans get better access to vaccines, tests, treatments and masks -- as well as area-specific updates on COVID-19 spread. The website leads users to locations where they can get vaccines, boosters and masks, and it connects people with another White House website to order free at-home rapid tests. The president is also highlighting that the "Test to Treat" initiative he announced at the State of the Union has already expanded to over 2,000 sites nationwide and now through COVID.gov's new "Test to Treat Locator," Americans can readily find pharmacies and community health centers to get tested for COVID-19 and receive treatments if needed. Notably, many of the COVID response efforts available on COVID.gov are the same things the White House says are in jeopardy of running out in the coming weeks and months if more funding is not approved. Administration officials for weeks have been ringing alarm bells about the critical need for more COVID funding, warning of the severe consequences for Americans. Biden on Wednesday is sending what a White House official called an "urgent, direct message to Congress" to act swiftly to secure funding for the administration's COVID response. Last week, the fund to cover testing and treatment for uninsured Americans ran out of money, leaving people to pay as much as $125 out of pocket if they get PCR testing at labs like Quest Diagnostics, one of the biggest in the country. The funding to cover the cost of administering vaccines for uninsured people will run out next week. At the same time, monoclonal antibody treatment supplies distributed to states each week has been cut by 35%. And the U.S. supply could run out entirely by May if funding isn't secured. The government says it has enough tests to get to the summer, but if there's another surge, the country will again be caught flat-footed like it was during the omicron wave. "You could see, again, a gap in access to at-home testing," Andrea Palm, deputy secretary of Health and Human Services, told reporters last week. The White House has said without additional funding, "the results are dire" -- one official told ABC News earlier this month, "Simply put, failing to take action now will have severe consequences for the American people." The White House has asked for $22.5 billion in immediate aid to keep COVID-19 programs afloat. Congress whittled that request down to $15 billion before cutting it from a spending bill entirely in early March. Since then, the White House has urged Democrats and Republicans on the Hill to come to an agreement, but negotiations remain at a stalemate. ABC News' Justin Gomez contributed to this report.

Britain says it's withdrawing its judges from Hong Kong’s top court because keeping them there would legitimize oppression in the former British colony On Location: March 30, 2022 LONDON -- Britain said Wednesday that it is withdrawing its judges from Hong Kong’s top court because keeping them there would legitimize oppression in the former British colony. British judges have sat on the court since Hong Kong was returned to China in 1997. The British government's move underscores the Asian financial hub’s growing isolation as the ruling Chinese Communist Party works to assert its control and silence independent voices. While the U.K. had judges serving on the Court of Final Appeal as part of efforts to safeguard the rule of law in the city, the British government said it was “no longer tenable" because of increasingly oppressive laws enacted by China. The two senior British judges on the court submitted their resignations with immediate effect Wednesday. “The courts in Hong Kong continue to be internationally respected for their commitment to the rule of law,” U.K. Supreme Court President Robert Reed said after his resignation from the Hong Kong court. “Nevertheless, I have concluded, in agreement with the government, that the judges of the Supreme Court cannot continue to sit in Hong Kong without appearing to endorse an administration which has departed from values of political freedom, and freedom of expression.” Fourteen non-permanent judges remain at the Hong Kong court, including 10 from other common law jurisdictions such as Australia and Canada. China has intensified its crackdown on Hong Kong’s semi-autonomous political and legal institutions in recent years. Those efforts include passage of a sweeping national security law in 2020 and changes to the electoral system that have effectively ended political opposition in the territory. The security law, which outlaws secession, subversion, terrorism and foreign collusion, has been used to arrest more than 100 pro-democracy figures, and many others have fled abroad. Since the law's introduction, Hong Kong police have raided the offices of pro-democracy media, shutting them down and arresting journalists. Lawmakers, students and the organizers of candlelit memorials marking Communist Party's deadly 1989 crackdown on a pro-democracy movement have also been targeted. Some Western governments and the United Nations say the security law is eroding the autonomy promised when the city was transferred back to China under the “one country, two systems” principle. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the two U.K. judges had “concluded that the constraints of the national security law make it impossible for them to continue to serve in the way that they would want.” “I appreciate and I understand their decision,” he said. In announcing the move, British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said there had been “a systematic erosion of liberty and democracy in Hong Kong.” “The situation has reached a tipping point where it is no longer tenable for British judges to sit on Hong Kong’s leading court, and would risk legitimizing oppression,” she said. The decision to pull British judges out after many years in Hong Kong was welcomed by British lawmakers. A senior Conservative Party member of Parliament, Tom Tugendhat, said British judges should not help empower “a legal system that is now being used to lock up Hongkongers without due process.” Conservative lawmaker Iain Duncan Smith, a longtime critic of the government in Beijing, said “the government has done the right thing here, and not a minute too soon.” “What Ukraine teaches us is that you simply cannot appease totalitarian states or make excuses for their behavior, which is exactly what the presence of our judges (was) doing in Hong Kong,'' Duncan Smith said. “They were lending legitimacy to a regime hell-bent on undermining our way of life.” The Hong Kong Bar Association called the decision “a matter of deep regret.” It appealed to the Court of Final Appeal's remaining overseas judges to stay and serve the city, and help uphold its judicial independence. ——— Elaine Kurtenbach contributed reporting from Bangkok.


Cluster 1 (Total Articles: 19):
The House could refer the matter to the DOJ for possible criminal charges. Capitol insurrection: Tracking the attack 1 year later As it enters what lawmakers called a "critical phase" of its inquiry, the House select committee investigating the Jan. 6 Capitol attack recommended on Monday that the full chamber hold senior Trump White House officials in contempt of Congress for their refusal to comply with congressional subpoenas for records and testimony related to efforts to overturn the 2020 election. Ahead of the unanimous committee vote, the panel released a 34-page report on Sunday laying out congressional investigators' interest in Peter Navarro and Dan Scavino, and how both Trump loyalists rebuffed requests for their cooperation, ahead of Monday night's vote on whether to refer the matter to the House. Both men "stonewalled" the committee, Chairman Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., said Monday. "They're not fooling anybody. They are obligated to comply with our investigation. They have refused to do so. And that's a crime," he said. A successful House vote would send the referrals to the Justice Department, which would decide whether to pursue criminal charges. Each contempt charge could carry up to a $100,000 fine and up to one year in jail. "The Select Committee’s witch hunt is predicated on the ridiculous legal premise that Joe Biden can waive Donald Trump’s Executive Privilege," Navarro said as part of a statement released after the vote. "The Supreme Court will say otherwise when the time comes -- as it surely must -- and the DOJ knows such nonsense would gut Executive Privilege and the critical role it plays in effective presidential decision making." "The 2020 election was stolen from Donald Trump just as surely as JFK stole it from Nixon in 1960," Navarro said. "If that is true -- which I have found it to be -- the entire premise of the contempt charges filed against me fall to pieces." The Justice Department has indicted Trump ally Steve Bannon for refusing to comply with the committee's subpoena. The trial for Bannon, who has pleaded not guilty, could begin this summer. The DOJ has not taken action on a referral from the House over former Trump Chief of Staff Mark Meadows' refusal to fully cooperate with the committee's subpoena -- something several committee members alluded to on Monday and appeared to criticize. "The Department of Justice has a duty to act on this referral and others that we have sent," Rep. Adam Schiff said Monday. "Without enforcement of Congressional subpoenas, there is no oversight, and without oversight, no accountability -- for the former President, or any other president, past, present, or future." Navarro, who officially served as a trade adviser to then-President Donald Trump in the White House's West Wing, produced a report alleging that the presidential election was stolen from Trump -- which he said Trump distributed to all Republican members of Congress prior to Jan. 6. The committee wrote in its report that Navarro also worked closely with Trump ally Steve Bannon to delay Congress' certification of the election and to overturn the results, a plan Navarro dubbed the "Green Bay Sweep" in his book, "In Trump Time." According to the committee, Navarro spoke to Bannon on Jan. 6, encouraged Trump associates to contact Trump ally Roger Stone to discuss Jan. 6 plans, and encouraged hundreds of state legislators to "take action" ahead of the certification of the election results. Navarro has repeatedly rebuffed the committee and has refused to comply with its subpoena, arguing that Trump invoked executive privilege over their communications, even though he detailed parts of his work in his book -- and even though President Joe Biden, as the current commander-in-chief, declined to invoke privilege over his testimony. "My position remains this is not my Executive Privilege to waive and the Committee should negotiate this matter with President Trump." Navarro said in a statement Sunday, in response to the committee's report. "If he waives the privilege, I will be happy to comply; but I see no effort by the Committee to clarify this matter with President Trump, which is bad faith and bad law." Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., on Monday called Navarro a "key witness" who had "written a book boasting about his role in planning and coordinating the activity of Jan. 6, and yet he does not have the courage to testify here." The Supreme Court previously rejected Trump's claims of privilege and refused to block the committee from some Trump White House records. The panel has also argued that Navarro's election-related work was not done in his capacity as a government official and would not be covered by executive privilege. "We want to talk to Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro about their roles in an attempt to overturn an election. The American people didn't pay their salaries to do that," Thompson said, dismissing their claims of privilege. The committee wrote in its report that Scavino, a deputy chief of staff and longtime Trump aide, was "uniquely positioned to illuminate" Trump's knowledge and actions leading up to Jan. 6. Scavino also played a central part in amplifying Trump's unfounded claims of widespread election fraud in his role managing the then-president's Twitter and other social media accounts. Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill., suggested Scavino "could tell us" what Trump was thinking on Jan. 6. "We need to hear from him," he said on Monday. According to the committee's report, the panel has obtained evidence that Scavino spoke to Trump "several times" on Jan. 6 and was with him at the White House as he faced public and private calls to help stop the violence at the Capitol. Pointing to his online presence and links to Trump's following on social media, the committee said it had "reason to believe" that Scavino "may have had advance warning of the possibility of violence on Jan. 6," given online activity on pro-Trump forums that suggested potential violence in Washington. "Whether and when the President and other senior officials knew of impending violence is highly relevant to the Select Committee's investigation and consideration of legislative recommendations," the committee wrote. The panel issued three subpoenas to Scavino -- including one delivered by U.S. Marshals to Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Florida -- and agreed to delay his deposition and document production deadline half a dozen times last year. Yet the committee said in its report that Scavino had "not produced a single document, nor has he appeared for testimony." Scavino also sued Verizon in January to stop the carrier from turning over his cell phone records to the committee. An attorney representing Scavino did not respond to requests for comment from ABC News.

President Joe Biden is commemorating Transgender Day of Visibility by celebrating prominent transgender Americans On Location: March 31, 2022 WASHINGTON -- President Joe Biden is commemorating Transgender Day of Visibility by celebrating prominent transgender Americans and advocating against what his administration terms “dangerous anti-transgender legislative attacks" that have passed in statehouses across the country. Biden on Thursday is announcing new measures aimed at making the federal government more inclusive for transgender people, including a new “X” gender marker on U.S. passport applications beginning on April 11 and new Transportation Security Administration scanners that are gender-neutral. The Democratic president's administration is working to expand the availability of the “X” gender marker to airlines and federal travel programs and will make it easier for transgender people to change their gender information in Social Security Administration records. Visitors to the White House will soon also be able to select an “X” gender marker option in the White House Worker and Visitor Entry System, which is used to conduct screening background checks for visitors to the executive mansion. At airports, there will changes to screening scanners as well as the use of an “X” for travelers going through Precheck who do not identify as male or female. TSA officers will receive new instructions on screening intended to make procedures less invasive. The TSA will work with airlines to promote the acceptance of the “X” gender marker. “Transgender Americans continue to face discrimination, harassment, and barriers to opportunity,” Biden wrote in a proclamation marking the day. “In the past year, hundreds of anti-transgender bills in States were proposed across America, most of them targeting transgender kids. The onslaught has continued this year. These bills are wrong." Biden also planned to release a video message to transgender Americans on Thursday. “Jeopardy!” champion Amy Schneider, the first openly transgender winner on the quiz show, will visit the White House on Thursday to meet with second gentleman Doug Emhoff. Emhoff, along with Admiral Rachel Levine, the assistant secretary for health at the Department of Health and Human Services, will also host a conversation with transgender kids and their parents at the White House. In Florida, Education Secretary Miguel Cardona will meet with LGBTQ+ students in the wake of the state's new law that bars instruction on sexual orientation and gender identity in kindergarten through the third grade. Republicans argue that parents should broach these subjects with children. Democrats have said the law demonizes LGBTQ people by excluding them from classroom lessons. “Their conversation will focus on the impacts of Florida’s so-called ‘Don’t Say Gay’ bill, students’ experiences at school and, in particular, support for LGBTQI+ student mental health and well-being,” the White House said. HHS, the White House said, will also be the first agency to fly a trans pride flag.

Sens. Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski and Mitt Romney will vote for Jackson. Ketanji Brown Jackson earns more bipartisan support for confirmation Three Republican senators -- Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Mitt Romney of Utah -- have taken the political risk of breaking from their party to vote for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's confirmation to the Supreme Court this week, elevating the first Black woman to the nation's highest court in its 233-year history. Democrats on Monday were able to advance Jackson's nomination out of the Senate Judiciary Committee by a 53-47 vote, with the help of those three Republicans, putting President Joe Biden's nominee on a clear path to being confirmed later this week by the full Senate. But it's unclear if they will face blowback from constituents or colleagues as they continue to explain their reasoning. Collins was the first Republican to pledge her support to Jackson last week, after meeting twice with the nominee who she said alleviated her concerns. Murkowski and Romney's endorsements followed on Monday, to the relief of the Biden White House, which had pushed for a bipartisan vote. Jackson left "quite an impression" on Murkowski during her Judiciary Committee hearings, where "she was put under some pretty, pretty intense scrutiny, and I think you saw grace under pressure there," Murkowski said. "There was a level of personal attack that was not warranted," she added, also calling out corrosive politics around the confirmation process. "This is an awful process it's just awful," Murkowski said. "We're strapped into it, we're so divided now. We are to that point where it is almost automatic where if it is a president who is not of my party puts forth a nominee I am somehow obligated to just barely even give consideration." Moments after Murkowski announced her intention Monday, Romney followed suit -- becoming the only Republican to reverse course and announce plans to support Jackson after previously voting against her confirmation to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit last year. He told reporters Tuesday that he got to yes after becoming convinced she's within the "mainstream." "In her previous confirmation votes I had concerns about whether she was in the mainstream and having spent time with her personally and reviewing her testimony before Congress I became convinced that she is in the mainstream," Romney said. While Jackson did, then, get the support of Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., on that vote, Graham said he will vote no this time around, adding that Jackson wouldn't have been given hearings had Republicans controlled the Senate. Republicans, led by Sen Josh Hawley, R-Mo., repeatedly challenged Jackson's sentencing of child porn offenders during the proceedings in an effort to paint her as "soft on crime" -- a label Democrats dismissed as false. (A handful of offenders received sentences below federal guidelines from Jackson, but the prison terms were above those recommended by the probation officer, putting her in the mainstream of judicial action.) Romney, like Collins and Murkowski, also lamented Tuesday that the process of confirming Supreme Court nominees has becoming increasingly politicized. "I think, perhaps, we are going to have to reconsider the process that we are going to pursue in the future in part because you could have a setting where you have a president of one party and a Senate of another, and maybe there will be a change," Romney said. "But at this stage, I was convinced that Judge Jackson is well qualified, intelligent capable, and I became convinced that she is within the mainstream." Collins said she was "delighted" to learn that her colleagues had "reached a similar conclusion" on Jackson's confirmation, adding she'd had "some conversations" with the two before they announced their positions but only learned of their support "earlier yesterday". She also raised concerns with the, at times, combative process wrecking the court's credibility. "I hope we can get back to a time where we have bipartisan support for qualified Supreme Court nominees because it is important for public confidence in the court," Collins said. "The court is not supposed to be a politicized institution, and if the nomination process leading up to confirmation is overly political, I believe it undermines the public's confidence in our courts and regrettably that's what we've seen with the last few nominees." While Collins aired concerns with some of Jackson's sentences, she said in a statement that the fact she "will not agree with every vote that she casts as a Justice...is not disqualifying."


Cluster 2 (Total Articles: 3):
The former governor will run for the seat vacated by Don Young. Sarah Palin running for Congress Former GOP vice president candidate and Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin will run for Alaska’s at-large Congress seat vacated by the late Rep. Don Young, she announced on her Facebook page Friday. "Today I’m announcing my candidacy for the U.S. House seat representing Alaska," Palin wrote. "Public service is a calling, and I would be honored to represent the men and women of Alaska in Congress, just as Rep. Young did for 49 years." Young died on March 18 at 88 years old after losing consciousness on a flight to Seattle returning home to Alaska. He was the "dean of the House" as the longest-serving representative. Tiffany Montemayor, public relations manager at the Alaska Division of Elections, confirmed to ABC News that Palin had filed to run on Friday afternoon. The deadline to file was 5 p.m. Friday. The primary will be held June 11 with the special election Aug. 16. Palin, 58, resigned as governor in 2009, but helped mainstream the populist strain of GOP politics later embraced by former President Donald Trump. "America is at a tipping point. As I’ve watched the far left destroy the country, I knew I had to step up and join the fight," Palin wrote. "The people of the great State of Alaska, like others all over the country, are struggling with out-of-control inflation, empty shelves, and gas prices that are among the highest in the world." She continued, "We need energy security for this country, and Alaska can help provide that -- but only if the federal government gets out of the way and lets the free market do what it does best." She was a surprise choice as running mate for the late Sen. John McCain when he ran unsuccessfully for president in 2008. Palin has stayed in the public eye in the 13 years since she stepped down as governor though she hasn't run for office since then. She released two books, "Going Rogue" and "America by Heart," appeared for years as a political commentator on Fox News and starred on the TLC reality series "Sarah Palin's Alaska." She was also a contestant on Fox's "The Masked Singer" in 2020. She was in the news last month when a judge in New York tossed a libel lawsuit she had filed against The New York Times in 2017 saying the newspaper deliberately ruined her burgeoning career as a political commentator and consultant by publishing an erroneous editorial. The judge said she had not proven "actual malice" on behalf of the paper. He allowed the jury to still reach a verdict, but they also ruled in favor of the newspaper. ABC News' Ben Siegel and Michelle Stoddart contributed to this report.

Ukraine's president has accused Russian forces of committing genocide.  What is genocide and has the legal threshold been crossed in Ukraine? Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russia of committing genocide after he said hundreds of civilians were found dead in the town of Bucha following the Russian military's withdrawal. Ukrainian officials have said more than 400 civilians were killed in Bucha, many with hands tied behind their backs, shot at close range. Russia's defense ministry said in a statement Sunday that all photographs and videos published by the Ukrainian authorities alleging "crimes" by Russian troops in Bucha were a "provocation" and claimed no resident of Bucha suffered violence at the hands of Russian troops. Russia has claimed all its units withdrew completely from Bucha around March 30. An ABC News analysis of videos and satellite imagery confirms some of the bodies seen lying in the streets of Bucha were there as early as March 19, when the town was still occupied by Russian forces, contradicting Russia's claims that the scene was "staged" after its troops left. President Joe Biden called Russian President Vladimir Putin a war criminal and the alleged acts committed by Russian troops "war crimes," but fell short of calling it genocide. Experts say this could, in part, be a political decision. "To say that a genocide is occurring, is also to say, we can't sit on our hands and do nothing here," David Simon, a senior lecturer and the director of the Genocide Studies program at Yale University, told ABC News. The U.S. government also has an internal process for designating whether genocide has occurred. It took the State Department five years to designate that a genocide had occurred in Myanmar, Simon said. This story explains the legal term "genocide" in relation to the war in Ukraine. What is genocide? Genocide is defined as an act "committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group," according to the United Nations' Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. Acts of genocide against members of a group listed in the convention include killings; causing them serious bodily or mental harm; deliberately inflicting life conditions calculated to being about its physical destruction; imposing measures to prevent births; or forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. Genocide is not just any large scale violence, or violence that becomes particularly gruesome or grisly, Simon said. There has to be intent by the perpetrators to destroy the group, he said. Killings are also not the only form of genocide that could have occurred in Ukraine, another expert said. "Other attempts to diminish the group, by placing them in harsh conditions of life, like if you think about starving a group to death, and you actually think of some cities in Ukraine today, where through bombardment and cutting off the flow of humanitarian aid, people are potentially going to be starving," Alex Hinton, the director of the Center for the Study of Genocide and Human Rights and UNESCO Chair on Genocide Prevention, told ABC News. Whether or not these violent acts allegedly committed by Russian forces against civilians are found to be acts of genocide, they are illegal under international law and warrant a response from the international community, Simon said. "What we're seeing in Ukraine almost certainly involves crimes against humanity, war crimes, and then to less well defined terms, ethnic cleansing and mass atrocities," Simon said. Legal threshold for defining genocide The legal definition of genocide does not define a threshold for an amount of violence that has to have happened in order for it to be considered genocide. "The importance of intent within the definition of genocide means really, that there is no legal threshold. Particularly because the convention says the 'intent destroy in whole or in part'," Simon said. In practice, though, Simon said the possibility of genocide has usually come up when the number of deaths are in the thousands. As of Wednesday, at least 1,480 civilians have been killed and 2,195 others have been injured in Ukraine since Russian forces invaded on Feb. 24, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Consequences for genocide  The U.N.'s convention on genocide tells countries to take claims to one of the organs of the United Nations for the further prevention and suppression of acts of genocide. However, with Russia's veto power, it is unlikely the Security Council, the organ primarily responsible for ensuring international peace and security, would be able to take action, Simon said. There are a number of things states or geopolitical actors can do, Hinton said. Organizations, including Human Rights Watch, and government actors are currently on the ground gathering evidence for a possible trial of those who may have committed crimes. An inquiry could also be launched to investigate the alleged war crimes committed. The International Criminal Court has begun active investigations into potential war crimes committed, but Simon said it could take years for this to be litigated. "In most cases, the ICC is able to act only after a conflict is essentially over," Simon said. The ICC's investigation into crimes committed in Myanmar is still primarily in the investigation phase, despite the most intense parts of the violence happening in 2017, Simon said. Investigators will need to prove it was Russia's intent to destroy Ukraine or Ukrainians as a group. This evidence would be any articulation of the idea on social media, public broadcasts, in writing or even private communications, Simon said. But, "there can be no actual case until those individuals that are under warrant are arrested and brought to the Hague for trial," Simon said. Radovan Karadzic, who committed war crimes in the former Yugoslavia during 1992 and 1993, and was convicted in the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the Hague, was at large until 2008. "His trial, which included genocide charges, took place something like a decade and a half after the acts he undertook," Simon said. Experts say leaders should act either way This violence could push actors to take a stronger stance against Russia, which could have included military action if Russia wasn't a nuclear power, Simon said. Biden has repeatedly said American troops will not join the war in Ukraine, warning that going head-to-head would lead to 'World War III.' Biden has also denied requests from Zelenskyy for a no-fly zone over Ukraine. "But it may push Europeans to have more of a taste to expand sanctions to include Russian exports of gas and oil, which could be far more devastating to the Russian economy than the sanctions that are in place up to this point," Simon said. Hinton agreed that additional sanctions could be imposed, but said lines of diplomacy need to be kept open, Hinton said. "There has to be a way to get out of the conflict, so diplomacy is absolutely critical," Hinton said. Russian and Ukrainian negotiators last held virtual talks on Friday where they discussed the proposed security guarantee treaty. Ukraine proposed a new system of security guarantees similar to NATO's collective defense clause which would legally require "guarantor countries" to provide arms and impose a "no-fly" zone over Ukraine, in the event of an attack. Simon said the term "genocide" can often be used politically, to describe crimes that do not fit its legal definition. "People tend to use genocide as a label for anything that upsets them. Indeed, the Russians have used Neo-Nazis and genocide against Russians as the pretext for invading in the first place, when there's absolutely no evidence of anything, especially intent to destroy Russians within Ukraine," Simon said. Hinton agreed, saying, "genocide has always from the very beginning, been a sort of political football. It's used and misused by states to serve their interest." A designation that the crimes committed against Ukrainian civilians amounts to genocide should not make a difference in the response, according to Simon. "There are clearly violations of international law that are causing great harm to civilian populations. And that alone should should trigger a stronger response," he said. "We have enough evidence of crimes against humanity, that if we think that mass atrocities are a reason for ratcheting up pressure, militarily or otherwise, against the perpetrator force, we have that evidence with us now and we don't need to have a determination of genocide to decide whether or not we find bodies in the street of Bucha repulsive or revolting," Simon said.

The workers allege staffing shortages and a lack of PPE stockpiles. How doctors don and doff personal protective equipment More than 8,000 nurses and health care workers in Northern California are planning a one-day strike Monday over staffing and other COVID-19-related concerns. The employees of Sutter Health, a health delivery system headquartered in Sacramento, are planning to strike at 15 facilities -- including locations in Berkeley, Oakland, San Francisco, Santa Cruz and Vallejo -- between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. and from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. According to a press release from the California Nurses' Association, a labor union, the workers are protesting concerns related to staffing shortages as well as health and safety protections they say are putting both patients and staff in danger. The CNA said the nurses voted to strike in March and alerted Sutter Health of the plans to picket 10 days in advance. "We have tried repeatedly to address the chronic and widespread problem of short staffing that causes delays in care and potentially puts patients at risk, but hospital administrators continue to ignore us," Amy Erb, a critical care nurse who works for Sutter's California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco, said in a statement. The statement continued, "We have a moral and legal obligation to advocate for our patients. We advocate for them at the bedside, at the bargaining table, and if we have to, on the strike line." Additionally, the workers alleged Sutter Health did not provide its workers with enough personal protective equipment at the beginning of the pandemic and has refused to invest in stockpiles, ignoring California's PPE stockpile law. Staff also said the health network has not been conducting contact tracing after positive cases are reported among staff. In addition to getting Sutter to address their concerns, the workers are attempting to negotiate higher salaries. Sutter Health told KCRA 3 in a statement it does offer competitive wages and pandemic protections. "They resist having nurses directly involved in planning and implementation of policies that affect all of us during a pandemic," Renee Water, a neurotrauma intensive care unit nurse at Sutter, said in a statement. "A fair contract is needed to retain experienced nurses, have sufficient staffing and training, and ensure we have the resources we need to provide safe and effective care for our patients" The union said nurses and other health care workers have been negotiating with Sutter for a new contract since June 2021 with little advancement. Sutter sent a statement to ABC News, saying it was disappointed by the strike and referring to it as "disruptive" and "costly." "By moving forward with today's costly and disruptive strike, union leadership has made it clear they are willing to put politics above patients and the nurses they represent -- despite the intervention of federal mediators and our willingness to bargain in good faith while under threat of a strike," the health network said. The statement continued, "Our attention is on providing safe, high-quality care to the patients and communities we're honored to serve. We are confident in our ability to manage this disruption. We are hopeful CNA shares our desire to reach an agreement and enable our nurses to turn their focus back to the patients the union has asked them to walk away from."


Cluster 3 (Total Articles: 3):
The U.S. government seized a mega yacht in Spain owned by an oligarch with close ties to the Russian president On Location: April 1, 2022 PALMA DE MALLORCA, Spain -- The U.S. government seized a mega yacht in Spain owned by an oligarch with close ties to the Russian president on Monday, the first in the government’s sanctions initiative to “seize and freeze” giant boats and other pricey assets of Russian elites. Spain's Civil Guard and U.S. federal agents descended on the yacht at the Marina Real in the port of Palma de Mallorca, the capital of Spain’s Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean Sea. Associated Press reporters at the scene saw police going in and out of the boat on Monday morning. The joint operation to seize the yacht, with Spain's Civil Guard, the FBI and Homeland Security Investigations, was carried out at the request of U.S. authorities, the Civil Guard said. A Civil Guard source told The Associated Press that the immobilized yacht is Tango, a 78-meter (254-feet) vessel that carries Cook Islands flag and that Superyachtfan.com, a specialized website that tracks the world’s largest and most exclusive recreational boats, values at $120 million. The source was also not authorized to be named in media reports and spoke to AP on condition of anonymity. The yacht is among the assets linked to Viktor Vekselberg, a billionaire and close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin who heads the Moscow-based Renova Group, a conglomerate encompassing metals, mining, tech and other assets, according to U.S. Treasury Department documents. All of Vekselberg’s assets in the U.S. are frozen and U.S. companies are forbidden from doing business with him and his entities. While Vekselberg has not been sanctioned by the European Union, he is under investigation in the U.S. for possible tax fraud, money laundering and falsifying documents precisely to hide the ownership of the Tango yacht, the Civil Guard said in a statement. The move is the first time the U.S. government has seized an oligarch’s yacht since Attorney General Merrick Garland and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen assembled a task force known as REPO — short for Russian Elites, Proxies and Oligarchs — as an effort to enforce sanctions after Russia invaded Ukraine in late February. Vekselberg has long had ties to the U.S. including a green card he once held and homes in New York and Connecticut. The Ukrainian-born businessman built his fortune by investing in the aluminum and oil industries in the post-Soviet era. Vekselberg was also questioned in special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and has worked closely with his American cousin, Andrew Intrater, who heads the New York investment management firm Columbus Nova. Vekselberg and Intrater were thrust into the spotlight in the Mueller probe after the attorney for adult film star Stormy Daniels released a memo that claimed $500,000 in hush money was routed through Columbus Nova to a shell company set up by Donald Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen. Columbus Nova denied that Vekselberg played any role in its payments to Cohen. Vekselberg and Intrater met with Cohen at Trump Tower, one of several meetings between members of Trump's inner circle and high-level Russians during the 2016 campaign and transition. The 64-year-old mogul founded Renova Group more than three decades ago. The group holds the largest stake in United Co. Rusal, Russia’s biggest aluminum producer, among other investments. Vekselberg was first sanctioned by the U.S. in 2018, and again in March of this year, shortly after the invasion of Ukraine began. Vekselberg has also been sanctioned by authorities in the United Kingdom. The yacht sails under Cook Islands flag and is owned by a company registered in the British Virgin Islands administered by different societies in Panama, the Civil Guard said, “following a complicated financial and societal web to conceal its truthful ownership.” Agents confiscated documents and computers inside the yacht that will be analyzed to confirm he real identity of the owner, it said. The U.S. Justice Department has also launched a sanctions enforcement task force known as KleptoCapture, which also aims to enforce financial restrictions in the U.S. imposed on Russia and its billionaires, working with the FBI, Treasury and other federal agencies. That task force will also target financial institutions and entities that have helped oligarchs move money to dodge sanctions. The White House has said that many allied countries, including German, the U.K, France, Italy and others are involved in trying to collect and share information against Russians targeted for sanctions. In his State of the Union address, President Joe Biden warned oligarch that the U.S. and European allies would “find and seize your yachts, your luxury apartments, your private jets.” “We are coming for your ill-begotten gains,” he said. Monday's capture is not the first time Spanish authorities have been involved in the seizure of a Russian oligarch’s superyacht. Officials there said they had seized a vessel valued at over $140 million owned by the CEO of a state-owned defense conglomerate and a close Putin ally. French authorities have also seized superyachts, including one believed to belong to Igor Sechin, a Putin ally who runs Russian oil giant Rosneft, which has been on the U.S. sanctions list since Russia annexed Crimea in 2014. Italy has also seized several yachts and other assets. Italian financial police moved quickly seizing the superyacht “Lena” belonging to Gennady Timchenko, an oligarch close to Putin, in the port of San Remo; the 65-meter (215-foot) “Lady M” owned by Alexei Mordashov in nearby Imperia, featuring six suites and estimated to be worth 65 million euros; as well as villas in Tuscany and Como, according to government officials. —— Parra reported from Madrid and Balsamo reported from Washington.

The U.S. government has seized a 254-foot yacht in Spain owned by an oligarch with close ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin President Zelenskyy calls Russia’s actions ‘genocide’ PALMA DE MALLORCA, Spain -- The U.S. government on Monday seized a 254-foot yacht in Spain owned by an oligarch with close ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, a first by the Biden administration under sanctions imposed after the Kremlin's invasion of Ukraine and targeting pricey assets of Russian elites. Spain's Civil Guard and U.S. federal agents descended on the Tango at the Marina Real in the port of Palma de Mallorca, the capital of Spain’s Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean Sea. Associated Press reporters at the scene saw police going in and out of the boat. The U.S. Justice Department, which obtained a warrant from a federal judge in Washington, alleges the yacht should be forfeited for violating U.S. bank fraud, money laundering and sanctions statutes. Superyachtfan.com, a specialized website that tracks the world’s largest and most exclusive recreational boats, values the 78-meter vessel, which carries the Cook Islands flag, at $120 million. The yacht is among the assets linked to Viktor Vekselberg, a billionaire and close Putin ally who heads the Moscow-based Renova Group, a conglomerate encompassing metals, mining, tech and other assets, according to U.S. Treasury Department documents. All of Vekselberg’s assets in the United States are frozen and American companies are barred from doing business with him and his entities. The Ukrainian-born businessman built his fortune by investing in the aluminum and oil industries in the post-Soviet era. Prosecutors allege Vekselberg bought the Tango in 2011 and has owned it since then, though they believe he has used shell companies to try to obfuscate his ownership and to avoid financial oversight. They contend Vekselberg and those working for him continued to make payments using U.S. banks to support and maintain the yacht, even after sanctions were imposed on him in 2018. Those payments included a stay in December 2020 at a luxury water villa resort in the Maldives and fees to moor the yacht. It's the first U.S. seizure of an oligarch’s yacht since U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland and U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen assembled a task force known as REPO — short for Russian Elites, Proxies and Oligarchs — as an effort to enforce sanctions after Russia invaded Ukraine in late February. "It will not be the last.” Garland said in a statement. “Together, with our international partners, we will do everything possible to hold accountable any individual whose criminal acts enable the Russian government to continue its unjust war.” Vekselberg has long had ties to the U.S., including a green card he once held and homes in New York and Connecticut. He was also questioned in special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and has worked closely with his American cousin, Andrew Intrater, who heads the New York investment management firm Columbus Nova. Vekselberg and Intrater were thrust into the spotlight in that investigation after the lawyer for adult film star Stormy Daniels released a memo that claimed $500,000 in hush money was routed through Columbus Nova to a shell company set up by Donald Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen. Columbus Nova denied that Vekselberg played any role in its payments to Cohen. Vekselberg and Intrater met with Cohen at Trump Tower, one of several meetings between members of Trump's inner circle and high-level Russians during Trump's 2016 campaign and the transition before his presidency. The 64-year-old Vekselberg founded Renova Group more than three decades ago. The group holds the largest stake in United Co. Rusal, Russia’s biggest aluminum producer, among other investments. Vekselberg was first sanctioned by the U.S. in 2018, and again in March of this year, shortly after the invasion of Ukraine began. Vekselberg has also been sanctioned by authorities in the United Kingdom. The yacht sails under the Cook Islands flag and is owned by a company registered in the British Virgin Islands administered by different societies in Panama, the Civil Guard said, “following a complicated financial and societal web to conceal its truthful ownership.” Agents confiscated documents and computers inside the yacht that will be analyzed to confirm he real identity of the owner, it said. The U.S. Justice Department has also launched a sanctions enforcement task force known as KleptoCapture, which also aims to enforce financial restrictions in the U.S. imposed on Russia and its billionaires, working with the FBI, the U.S. Treasury and other federal agencies. That task force will also target financial institutions and entities that have helped oligarchs move money to dodge sanctions. The White House has said that many allied countries, including German, the United Kingdom, France, Italy and others are involved in trying to collect and share information against Russians targeted for sanctions. In his State of the Union address on March 1, President Joe Biden warned oligarchs that the U.S. and European allies would “find and seize your yachts, your luxury apartments, your private jets.” “We are coming for your ill-begotten gains,” he said. Monday's capture is not the first time Spanish authorities have been involved in the seizure of a Russian oligarch’s superyacht. Officials said they had seized a vessel valued at over $140 million owned by the CEO of a state-owned defense conglomerate and a close Putin ally. French authorities have seized superyachts, including one believed to belong to Igor Sechin, a Putin ally who runs Russian oil giant Rosneft, which has been on the U.S. sanctions list since Russia annexed Crimea in 2014. Italy has seized several yachts and other assets. Italian financial police moved quickly seizing the superyacht Lena belonging to Gennady Timchenko, an oligarch close to Putin, in the port of San Remo; the 65-meter (215-foot) Lady M owned by Alexei Mordashov in nearby Imperia, featuring six suites and estimated to be worth 65 million euros; as well as villas in Tuscany and Como, according to government officials. ——— Parra reported from Madrid and Balsamo reported from Washington.

Congress has overwhelmingly voted to suspend normal trade relations with Russia and ban the importation of its oil, ratcheting up the U.S. response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine amid reports of atrocities What is genocide and has the legal threshold been crossed in Ukraine? WASHINGTON -- Congress voted overwhelmingly Thursday to suspend normal trade relations with Russia and ban the importation of its oil, ratcheting up the U.S. response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine amid reports of atrocities. House action came after the Senate approved the two bills with 100-0 votes. The measures now go to President Joe Biden to be signed into law. Lawmakers overwhelmingly support the substance of the two bills, but they had languished for weeks in the Senate as lawmakers worked to hammer out the final details. Biden has already taken executive action to ban Russian oil, liquefied natural gas and coal to the United States. The legislation puts the effort into law. The bill to end normal trade relations with Russia paves the way for Biden to enact higher tariffs on various imports, such as certain steel and aluminum products, further weakening the Russian economy under President Vladimir Putin. It also ensures Belarus receives less favorable tariff treatment. Rep. Richard Neal, D-Mass., said innocent Ukrainians were being slaughtered even as lawmakers were meeting. “We have no time to waste and must immediately further punish Vladimir Putin,” Neal said. “What we have witnessed in Bucha over the course of the last 72 hours alone more than justifies the positions we have taken in the past and to be more assertive and aggressive going into the future.” Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., announced late Wednesday a breakthrough in negotiations to bring the bills up for votes before lawmakers travel back to their home states and congressional districts for two weeks. Some lawmakers said that the failure to take final action on the bills was sending the wrong message to allies and to Russia. “Now, I wish this could have happened sooner, but after weeks of talks with the other side, it’s important that we have found a path forward,” Schumer said. Schumer said the images coming out of Ukraine as the war drags on “are pure, pure evil. Hundreds of civilians murdered in cold blood.” “No nation whose military is committing war crimes deserves free trade status with the United States,” Schumer said moments before the vote. While there was overwhelming support for suspending preferential trade treatment for Russia, Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., blocked speedy consideration of the bill over concerns that its language on who can be sanctioned for human rights abuses is too broad, leaving it ripe for abuse. A few other Republicans had voiced similar concerns. Schumer opted to let senators work behind the scenes on language that lawmakers from both parties and the White House could accept, rather than chew up floor time to overcome the filibuster. Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md., said, practically speaking, the impact of the delay on the trade bill is minimal “because there’s virtually no trade right now coming in from Russia.” Still, he said passage of the bill is important. “Messaging is important here and showing action is important,” Cardin said. “You’ve got the Ukrainians on the battlefield every day. The least we can do is get these bills passed.” The bill also provides the president with the authority to return normal tariff treatment for Russia as well as resume trade in Russian energy products subject to certain conditions. While Russian oil makes up only a small part of U.S. imports, it carries a high price for lawmakers in Congress who viewed the ban as a moral test in blocking an economic lifeline for Putin’s regime. The White House says that sanctions the U.S. and more than 30 other nations have already enacted have stung the Russian economy. It said that experts are now predicting Russia’s GDP will contract up to 15% this year and that inflation is already spiking above 15%. More than 600 private sectors companies have already left the market. “Russia will very likely lose its status as a major economy, and it will continue a long descent into economic, financial, and technological isolation,” the White House report said.


Cluster 4 (Total Articles: 148):
It took the Russian military over a week to acknowledge that one serviceman died and two dozen others were missing after one of its flagship cruisers sank in the Black Sea, reportedly the result of a Ukrainian missiles strike It took the Russian military over a week to acknowledge that one serviceman died and two dozen others were missing after one of its flagship cruisers sank in the Black Sea, reportedly the result of a Ukrainian missiles strike. The acknowledgment happened after families started searching desperately for their sons who, they said, served on the ship and did not come home, and relatives are posing sharp questions about Russia's initial statement that the entire crew was evacuated. Russia's Defense Ministry said Friday in a terse announcement that one crew member died and 27 were left missing after a fire damaged the flagship Moskva cruiser last week, while 396 others were evacuated. The ministry did not offer any explanation for its earlier claims that the full crew got off the vessel before it sank. The loss of the Moskva, one of three missile cruisers of its kind in Russia's fleet, was shrouded in mystery from the moment it was first reported early on April 14. Ukraine said it hit the ship with missiles. The Russian Defense Ministry would not acknowledge an attack, saying only that a fire broke out on the vessel after ammunition detonated, causing serious damage. Moscow even insisted that the ship remained afloat and was being towed to a port, only to admit hours later that it sank after all — in a storm. No images of the ship, or of the supposed rescue operation, were made available. Only several days later, the Russian military released a short and mostly silent video showing rows of sailors, supposedly from the Moskva, reporting to their command in the Crimean city of Sevastopol. The footage offered little clarity on how many sailors were actually evacuated to safety. Soon came the questions. An emotional social media post by Dmitry Shkrebets alleging that his son, a conscript who served as a cook on Moskva, was missing, quickly went viral. The military "said the entire crew was evacuated. It's a lie! A blatant and cynical lie!” Shkrebets, a resident of Crimea, wrote on VK, a popular Russian social media platform, on April 17, three days after the ship went down. “My son, a conscript, as the very commanders of the Moskva cruiser told me, is not listed among the wounded and the dead and is added to the list of those missing ... Guys, missing in the open sea?!” Similar posts quickly followed from other parts of Russia. The Associated Press found social media posts looking for at least 13 other young men who reportedly served on the Moskva whose families could not find them. One woman spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity, as she feared for her son's safety. She said her son was a conscript and had been aboard the Moskva for several months before telling her in early February that the ship was about to depart for drills. She lost touch with him for several weeks after that. The news about Russia invading Ukraine worried her, she said, and she started reading the news online and on social media every day. The last time they spoke on the phone was in mid-March. He was on the ship but did not say where it was. She didn't start looking for him until a day after she learned about trouble aboard the Moskva, because official statements from the Defense Ministry said the crew was evacuated. But no one called or messaged her about her son's whereabouts, and she started to get agitated. Calls to various military officials and hotlines got her nowhere at first, but she persisted. A call she made on the way to a grocery store brought bleak news — that her son was listed as missing and that there was little chance he survived in the cold water. “I said ‘But you said you rescued everyone,’ and he said ‘I only have the lists’. I screamed ‘What are you doing?!’" she told the AP. “I got hysterical, right at the bus stop (where I was standing), I felt like the ground was giving way under my feet. I started shaking.” The Kremlin statements about the ship’s loss and the crew’s fate follow a historical pattern in which Russia has often met bad news with silence, denials or undercounts about casualties. Previous examples include the 1986 accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine, the sinking of the nuclear-powered submarine Kursk in the Barents Sea in 2000 and the 1994-1996 Chechen war. The families' accounts could not be independently verified. But they went largely uncontested by Russian authorities. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov refused to comment and redirected the question to the Defense Ministry when asked by the AP during one of his daily conference calls with reporters about families challenging the official statements about sailors being evacuated. The Defense Ministry did not comment on the outcry either — until Friday, when it finally revealed that 27 crew members were missing and one was confirmed dead. The ministry still did not acknowledge an attack on the ship, however. Political analyst Abbas Gallyamov says the sinking of the Moskva is a major political blow for President Vladimir Putin, not so much because of the outcry from families, but because it hurts Putin's image of military might. “This trait, might, is under attack now because we're now talking about the devastation of the fleet,” Gallyamov said. But the families' woes underscores "that one shouldn't trust the Russian authorities.” In the meantime, some families with missing sons plan to continue seeking the truth. “Now we will turn to figuring out for how long one can ‘go missing’ in the open sea,” Shkrebets posted Friday.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki isn't confirming reports that she'll soon take a TV job at MSNBC WASHINGTON -- White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Friday would not confirm reports that she will soon take a TV job at MSNBC, saying she is focused on her job speaking for President Joe Biden. “I have nothing to confirm about my length of public service or planned service or anything about consideration about next plans,” Psaki said under questioning at her first briefing after COVID-19 forced her into quarantine for a second time in late-March. “I'm very happy to be standing with all of you here today after it felt like a never-ending time in my basement quarantining away from my family,” she said. “My focus every day continues to be speaking on behalf of the president." The Axios news site first reported Friday, citing a source close to the matter, that Psaki is in exclusive talks to join MSNBC after she leaves the White House around May. Multiple MSNBC representatives did not respond Friday to emailed requests for comment. Reports earlier this year said Psaki was being heavily courted by both MSNBC and CNN, where she provided on-air commentary before joining then-President-elect Biden's transition team. The Axios report Friday suggested that Psaki, 43, had narrowed her search. Under questioning Friday about her future employment and the ethics of negotiating a TV job while still serving as a public face for the administration, Psaki repeatedly stressed that she has complied with all ethical and legal requirements imposed by the Biden administration. “I have always gone over and above the stringent ethical and legal requirements of the Biden administration, and I take that very seriously,” she said. “And as is standard for every employee at the White House, I've received rigorous ethics counseling, including as it relates to any future employment.” White House press secretaries typically do not hold the grueling job for very long, and presidents often are served by multiple chief spokespersons. President Barack Obama had three during his eight years in office, while President Donald Trump had four during his four-year term. Psaki has been open about saying she would hold the job for at least a year before she started to think about moving on, often citing her young son and daughter as a reason. In May 2021, she spoke to political strategist and podcast host David Axelrod about why she loved the job of White House press secretary — and why she was unlikely to still be doing it a year later. “I have little kids and I don’t want to miss time with them. I don’t want to miss moments,” she said. She expressed similar sentiment Friday. “At whatever time I leave the White House, I can promise you the first thing I’m going to do is sleep and spend time with my 3- and 6-year-olds, who are my most important audiences of all,” Psaki said. —- Associated Press Radio Correspondent Sagar Meghani and AP News Researcher Rhonda Shafner in New York contributed to this report.

A new report revealed accusations of political interference against HHS. Birx grilled over not speaking out on Trump, COVID-19 In closed-door testimony to House investigators released on Friday, Dr. Bob Redfield, former head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said that throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, former President Donald Trump appointees repeatedly blocked his public health experts from briefing the American public. Redfield described, in detail, efforts by the CDC to speak publicly on what it knew about COVID and how people could stay safe. "They would not clear our briefings," Redfield said, according to written excerpts of the interview. "This is one of my great disappointments. That HHS basically took over total clearance of briefings by CDC." Further, Redfield said he believed the consequences of CDC's inability to provide information to the public during that period, impacted the trust of the American public on the agency. He called his replacement, Dr. Rochelle Walensky, after she was picked for the job, and promised he would never jump on the evening television shows and criticize her. "I called her when she got nominated. The one thing she wasn't going to hear from me was public criticism. I got it every night from my predecessors on the nightly news. I said I'm not going to do that to you. That is tough job. I'm here to help. Call me if you can," Redfield said. Prior to Redfield's comments, last week, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a new report detailing accusations from staffers of political interference against the agencies within HHS, including the CDC, the Food and Drug Administration, the National Institutes of Health, and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response. Interviewees reported, through a confidential hotline, that they had witnessed instances of political interference occur, but did not report them for various reasons, including fear of retaliation, a lack of knowledge on how to report the issues, or a belief that their leaders were already aware of the issues. Some respondents from the CDC and FDA said they felt that the potential political interference they observed, had resulted in the "alteration" or "suppression" of scientific findings. Other interviewees reported that they believed the potential political interference that they had witnessed, may have resulted in the "politically motivated alteration of public health guidance or delayed publication of COVID-19-related scientific findings." In one instance, in May 2020, a senior official from the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response claimed that HHS retaliated against him for disclosing "concerns about inappropriate political interference to make chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine available to the public as treatments for COVID-19," GAO officials wrote in the report. The report, which stated that the agencies had not reported any formal internal allegations of potential political interference from 2010 through 2021, found that the federal health agencies do not have appropriate procedures in place that "define political interference in scientific decision-making." Although all four agencies train staff on some scientific-integrity-related topics, the NIH is the only agency that provides guidance on political interference. According to GAO officials, who concluded their audit through April 2022, HHS concurred with the recommendations to develop procedures and training for reporting these allegations of political interference.


Cluster 5 (Total Articles: 8):
Russia is demanding payment in rubles for its natural gas exports to Europe On Location: March 31, 2022 BERLIN -- Europe's already high gas prices have gyrated since Russian President Vladimir Putin announced plans to have importers pay for Russian natural gas in rubles instead of dollars and euros. Here's a look at some of the implications of such a move: WHAT IS PUTIN PROPOSING? Europe imports large amounts of Russian natural gas to heat homes, generate electricity and fuel industry, and those imports have continued despite the war in Ukraine. Around 60% of imports are paid in euros, and the rest in dollars. Putin wants to change that by requiring foreign gas importers to purchase rubles and use them to pay state-owned supplier Gazprom. Putin told the Russian central bank last Wednesday to come up with a workable system. WHAT EFFECTS COULD THAT PLAN HAVE? Importers would have to find a bank that would exchange euros and dollars for rubles. That could be cumbersome because some Russian banks have been either blocked or cut off from the SWIFT messaging system that facilitates international payments. Still, there are some banks that haven't been cut off, and for now, sanctions imposed by the U.S. Treasury barring bank transactions contain exceptions for energy payments. That's a concession to European allies that are much more reliant on Russian oil and gas and fear a total cutoff could throw their economy into recession. Russia getting paid for gas in their currency would at best help marginally in getting around financial sanctions, propping up the ruble’s value or protecting the Russian economy, said Eswar Prasad, professor of trade policy at Cornell University and a former official at the International Monetary Fund. “Either Putin is getting terrible economic advice or he is going further off the rails in his hatred for the West,” Prasad said. “It would be cheaper for foreign importers to pay for Russia’s exports in a currency that is collapsing in value, but it is difficult to acquire rubles and make payments in a manner that avoids the sanctions." He warned that the move “could further roil global energy markets by exacerbating current supply disruptions and adding to uncertainty about future supplies, which could all add up to more price spikes.” HOW IS PUTIN'S DEMAND BEING RECEIVED IN EUROPE? European governments and energy companies are rejecting the idea, saying gas import contracts specify the currency and that one side can't change it overnight. They say they intend to keep paying in euros and dollars. More broadly, the Group of Seven major economies including Japan, the U.S. and Canada as well as Germany, France, Italy and Britain have agreed to reject Moscow’s demand. The European Union's energy commissioner also agreed, a G-7 statement said. German Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck told reporters Monday that “all G-7 ministers agreed completely" that such a step would be "a one-sided and clear breach of the existing contracts.” WHAT’S PUTIN’S MOTIVE? In theory, requiring ruble payments could support demand for the currency and its exchange rate. But not by much, Prasad says. As it stands, euros and dollars are already being used to purchase rubles when Gazprom exchanges its foreign earnings. The Center for Eastern Studies in Warsaw has suggested that by moving the flow of foreign currency from Gazprom to the largely state-controlled banking system, the Kremlin will gain added control over foreign currency that has become scarcer since Western countries froze much of Russia's reserves abroad. However, that would leave Gazprom without hard currency to make foreign debt payments or purchase supplies abroad. As it stands, the gas supplier already has to sell 80% of its foreign currency to Russia's central bank. The ruble dispute has raised concerns it could lead to an interruption in natural gas supply. That could open Russia to charges of not adhering to long-term energy contracts, which it has done so far. Europe's pipeline system is highly connected, so any attempt to restrict flows to some countries would affect the others, according to analysts at Rystad Energy. Beyond that, energy sales are a key source of revenue for Russia. Asked by reporters if Russia could cut gas supplies to European customers if they reject the demand to pay in rubles, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in a conference call Monday that “we clearly aren’t going to supply gas for free.” “In our situation, it’s hardly possible and feasible to engage in charity for Europe,” Peskov said. HOW REAL IS THAT THREAT? The ruble proposal led Germany’s utilities association, the BDEW, to call on the government to declare an “early warning” of a severe energy shortage. That’s the first of three stages of energy emergency in EU and German law, the highest being a shortage so severe that the government must shut off gas to industry to protect households. The German government does not see the need for such a declaration, a spokeswoman said Monday. It's possible Putin is bluffing. This month, Russia threatened to use rubles to pay foreign investors who hold government bonds dominated in dollars. It went through with a dollar payment after ratings agencies said paying in rubles would put Russia in default. When it comes to gas payments, “Putin may demand rubles, but the contracts are clear," said Carl Weinberg, chief economist and managing director at High Frequency Economics in White Plains, New York. "His only option to force change is to refuse to deliver products, and that cannot happen: He can’t keep oil and gas from coming out of the ground without capping wells, and storage capacity will get filled very fast if shipments stop cold. ” “So let’s call it a bluff,” Weinberg said. “Russia cannot stop shipping product any more than Germany and the EU can stop buying it.” WHY IS ENERGY AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN THE WAR? The European economy remains heavily dependent on Russia for 40% of its gas imports and 25% of its oil. While the U.S. and the United Kingdom have said they will stop buying Russian oil, European leaders have shied away from a total boycott of Russian oil and gas. Instead, they have focused on reducing their imports over the next several years through conservation, other sources and switching to wind and solar as fast as they can. Estimates vary of the impact of a total gas shutoff in Europe, but they generally involve a substantial loss of economic output.

"This is nothing new for the Russian Army," a U.S. congressman tells ABC News. What is genocide and has the legal threshold been crossed in Ukraine? In one of the creepiest allegations to emerge from the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Kremlin is being accused by Ukrainian officials of using "mobile crematoriums" to incinerate dead civilians in a deliberate effort to cover-up alleged war crimes in the hard-hit city of Mariupol. Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko made the charge this week, saying he heard eyewitness accounts of Russian soldiers driving around Mariupol with crematoriums on lorries and collecting bodies of civilians while at the same time barring the International Committee of the Red Cross from entering the city with humanitarian aid. "The world has not seen the scale of the tragedy in Mariupol since the existence of Nazis concentration camps," Boychenko said on Tuesday. "The Russians have turned our entire city into a death camp. Unfortunately, the creepy analogy is getting more and more confirmation." In a statement released on its Facebook account, the Mariupol City Council said, "witnesses have seen evidence Russia is operating mobile crematoria in Mariupol, burning the bodies of dead civilians and covering up evidence of war crimes." The statement added "this is why Russia is not in a hurry" to let the ICRC and other human rights watch groups into Mariupol to rescue civilians still trapped there. Boychenko and the city council said the portable human furnaces showed up in Mariupol after reports of alleged atrocities at the hands of Russian troops emerged in Bucha, a suburb of the capital city Kyiv. Ukrainian officials reported that at least 410 civilians were killed in Bucha, including many found with their hands tied behind their backs and shot in the head. Boychenko said his once-thriving port city of 400,000 people has been completely decimated by bombing raids and estimated that around 5,000 people there have been killed. U.S. defense officials told ABC News they have not confirmed the allegations that Russia is using mobile crematoriums to hide evidence of war crimes. Rep. Seth Moulton, D-Massachusetts, told ABC News on Thursday that he is not surprised by the reports. Moulton, a former Marine and a member of the House Armed Services Committee, said that during a 2015 fact-finding mission in Ukraine that he went on with other House members, "credible sources" informed him that the Russian Army was using mobile crematoriums on its own soldiers in the Russian occupied Crimea, Ukraine. He said the sources told him Russia was using the devices to cover up the number of its soldiers killed in Crimea. "We heard this from a variety of sources over there, enough that I was confident in the veracity of the information," Moulton said. "None of that has changed. That is absolutely what was going on back then and I'm now hearing reports, unsurprisingly, that it's happening again." Moulton said he has no reason to discount reports from Ukrainian officials that Russia is using the incinerators to hide new war crimes. "The bottom line is this is nothing new for the Russian Army and Vladimir Putin," Moulton said. In an interview with Turkish media this week, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy alleged that Russian soldiers were "cleaning up" before allowing aid workers into the heavily bombed Mariupol. Pressure has been mounting from the international community to bring war crimes against Putin and other Russian officials. The international criminal court in The Hague has launched an investigation into the atrocities allegedly committed against Ukrainian civilians by Russian troops since the invasion started on Feb. 24. A report released Thursday by Amnesty International claims Russian forces have committed numerous war crimes throughout Ukraine. The organization said its crisis response investigators interviewed more than 20 people from villages and towns near Kyiv and many claimed to have witnessed civilian executions. The United Nations General Assembly on Thursday voted to pass a resolution to suspend Russia from the U.N. Human Rights Council in response to Russian forces' alleged killings of civilians in Ukraine. "I'm not sure who needs more proof that Russia is committing war crimes," Moulton told ABC News. "They're trying to cover their tracks." Russia has denied committing atrocities and targeting civilians.

The Group of Seven major economies have agreed to reject Moscow’s demand to pay for Russian natural gas exports in rubles Ukrainian forces mount huge counteroffensive against Russia BERLIN -- The Group of Seven major economies agreed Monday to reject Moscow’s demand to pay for Russian natural gas exports in rubles. German energy minister Robert Habeck told reporters that “all G-7 ministers agreed completely that this (would be) a one-sided and clear breach of the existing contracts” for natural gas, which is used to heat homes, generate electricity and power industry. The energy ministers of France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada, as well as the European Union energy commissioner, met by videoconference and reaffirmed that contracts “must be respected," with most stipulating payments be in euros or dollars, a G-7 statement said. “Payment in ruble is not acceptable, and we will urge the companies affected not to follow (Russian President Vladimir) Putin’s demand,” Habeck said. Putin announced last week that Russia will demand “unfriendly" countries pay for natural gas only in Russian currency from now on, instructing the central bank to work out a procedure for buyers to acquire rubles in Russia. The demand sent already high gas prices even higher amid fears it could be a prelude to a natural gas shutoff, which could disrupt Europe's economy and hurt Russia's finances. Economists said the move appeared designed to try to support the ruble, which has collapsed against other currencies since Putin invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24 and Western countries responded with far-reaching sanctions against Moscow. But some analysts expressed doubt that it would work. Asked by reporters earlier Monday if Russia could cut natural gas supplies to European customers if they reject the demand to pay in rubles, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in a conference call that “we clearly aren’t going to supply gas for free.” “In our situation, it’s hardly possible and feasible to engage in charity for Europe,” Peskov said. Asked what happens if Russia turns off the taps now, Germany’s energy minister said, “We are prepared for all scenarios.” “Putin’s demand to convert the contracts to ruble (means) he is standing with his back to the wall in that regard, otherwise he wouldn’t have made that demand,” Habeck said, adding that Russia needs rubles to finance its war at home, such as payments to troops. European governments have shied away from imposing a ban on energy imports from Russia over fears of the impact it would have on the economy. Europe gets 40% of its gas and 25% of its oil from Russia, and since the war, has scrambled to set out proposals to reduce its dependency. Russia is just as reliant on Europe, with oil and gas its dominant sector and paying for government. Estimates of the impact of a gas boycott or embargo on Europe vary but most involve a substantial loss of economic output, especially since the war and the resulting surge in energy and raw material prices is already weighing on Europe's economy. U.S. sanctions permit exceptions for payments for oil and gas, though it has banned Russian energy imports itself. Putin’s rubles payment proposal led Germany’s utilities association, the BDEW, to call on the government to declare an “early warning” of an energy emergency. A spokeswoman said Monday that the government does not see the need for an early warning declaration at this time. When pressed by reporters on making the declaration, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said “the contracts we know lay down the euro as payment currency and the companies will pay according to the contracts they have signed.” What currency is used to buy Russian energy “doesn't really matter," said Robin Brooks, chief economist at the Institute of International Finance, a trade group for the world’s banks. “What matters is that energy exports give Russia purchasing power, which it can convert into goods from abroad,” she said. Putin's demand for payment in rubles “is mostly window dressing. It doesn’t change the underlying transactions,’’ Brooks said. “At the margin, I would call this another ‘own goal’ by Putin, since it increases the focus on gas purchases by Western Europe and could potentially raise the odds of an import stop.” ——— AP Economics Writer Paul Wiseman contributed from Washington.


Cluster 6 (Total Articles: 3):
The sprawling European science lab that houses the world’s largest atom smasher is taking new steps that will further limit its cooperation with Russian research institutes GENEVA -- The sprawling European science lab that houses the world’s largest atom smasher is taking new steps that will further limit its cooperation with Russian research institutes in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The CERN Council, the governing body of the Geneva-based lab with 23 member states, announced Friday that its scientists will suspend participation in all scientific committees in Russia and neighboring Belarus, a Russian ally that facilitated the Feb. 24 invasion. CERN, the historic acronym for what is now the European Organization for Nuclear Research, had grappled with its response to the invasion because nearly 7% of its 18,000-odd researchers from around the world are linked to Russian institutions. On March 8, the council suspended new collaborations with Russia and stripped Russia of its observer status at the organization. The issue of whether to further sanction Russia became pressing because the Large Hadron Collider, the world’s largest and most powerful particle accelerator, is set to start its third-ever run next month. The machine propels particles through an underground, 27-kilometer (17-mile) ring of superconducting magnets in and around Geneva, generating science that can help elucidate mysteries like dark matter or the standard model of particle physics. Russian scientists have been involved in planning multiple experiments. Under the new measures approved Friday, CERN will suspend all joint events with Russian institutes and pause considering any new candidates from Russia and Belarus to join the organization's staff. The council also announced that it will suspend all collaboration with the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, an international grouping of 19 member nations based in Dubna, Russia. More than half of the members are former Soviet republics, including Ukraine, but they also include Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, North Korea, and Vietnam.

Analysts in Kyiv are assessing damages and estimating the financial value. Infrastructure damage in Ukraine costs billions LONDON -- The cost of direct damage to Ukraine's infrastructure amid Russia's ongoing invasion has reached almost an estimated $63 billion, according to an analysis by the Kyiv School of Economics. Shocking images and videos have emerged in recent weeks showing just some of the devastation across Ukraine since Russian forces attacked on Feb. 24. Where businesses, homes, hospitals, schools and other infrastructure once stood, there are now massive piles of unrecognizable rubble and crumbling shells of concrete. The KSE Institute, an analytical unit of the Kyiv School of Economics in Ukraine's capital, has been collecting and analyzing data from the "Russia Will Pay" project, launched in collaboration with the Ukrainian president's office and the Ukrainian Ministry of Economy. Through the resource, Ukrainian citizens, government officials and local authorities can confidentially submit reports on the loss of or damage to physical infrastructure across the country as a result of the war, including roads, residential buildings, businesses and other facilities. Analysts at the KSE Institute then assess those reported damages and estimate the financial value. "It is aimed at collecting information about all the facilities destroyed as a result of the war that Russia waged against Ukraine," the KSE Institute said in a recent statement about the "Russia Will Pay" resource. "The Ukrainian government will use this data as evidence in international courts for Russia to compensate for the intended damages." The latest analysis shows that, as of March 24, at least 4,431 residential buildings, 92 factories and warehouses, 378 institutions of secondary and higher education, 138 health care institutions, 12 airports, seven thermal power plants and hydroelectric power plants have been damaged, destroyed or seized in Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion on Feb. 24 -- totaling an estimated $62,889,000. Compared to the previous estimate published on March 17, net growth amounted to $3.5 billion, according to the KSE Institute. Meanwhile, Ukraine's overall economic losses due to the war -- taking into account both direct losses calculated from the project as well as indirect losses, like GDP decline -- range from $543 billion to $600 billion, according to an estimate by the KSE Institute and the Ukrainian Ministry of Economy. Before updating its calculations, the KSE Institute said it received "detailed data" from the Ukrainian Ministry of Infrastructure on the destruction of its facilities, which allowed analysts to clarify and, in some cases, reduce the assessment of losses. The KSE Institute said it has improved the methodology of assessing losses from the destruction of residential real estate "based on the World Bank’s experience in analyzing losses in Syria and Iraq, as well as the recommendations of the leading Ukrainian investment company Dragon Capital." "These calculations are based on the analysis of several thousands of public notifications from Ukrainian citizens, the government, local authorities about losses and damages throughout the country, as well as indirect assessment methods such as calculating the estimated area of the war-damaged property in the most affected cities," the KSE Institute said. "These estimates are not exhaustive: information on numerous damages and destruction may be missing due to the inability of citizens, local and state authorities to promptly record the damage in each city and town."

The luxury rental property has "gorgeous ocean views," according to its listing. Federal investigation into Hunter Biden’s tax affairs  Hunter Biden is apparently spending his father's presidency living in luxury in Malibu -- and so is his taxpayer-funded security detail. The Secret Service detail protecting the president's controversial son has been paying more than $30,000 a month to rent out a swanky Malibu, California, mansion for nearly a year, sources familiar with the matter tell ABC News. The agency responsible for protecting the president and his family -- among other ranking government officials -- selected the property in order to be located as close as possible to Biden's own rented mansion where he is paying about $20,000 a month according to property listings, sources told ABC News. Retired senior Secret Service agent Don Mihalek, now an ABC News contributor, said the arrangement is "the cost of doing business for the Secret Service," adding that under the federal law, the agency has a mandated protective responsibility for the president, the first family, and anybody else the president designates for protection. "Typically, wherever a protectee sets up their residence, the Secret Service is forced to find someplace to rent nearby at market value," Mihalek said, noting that the agency is also renting out properties to protect President Joe Biden's residences in Wilmington and Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. "This isn't new," Mihalek said. "The Service has had to do this in past administrations, and unfortunately, the housing market right now has driven the prices up substantially." A White House official referred ABC News to the Secret Service for comment. Asked about the cost of the protection, a representative for the Secret Service said only: "Due to the need to maintain operational security, the U.S. Secret Service does not comment on the means, methods, or resources used to conduct our protective operations." A representative for Hunter Biden did not respond to requests for comment from ABC News. Hunter Biden's California lifestyle is coming into focus just as the federal probe into his tax affairs has intensified, as sources familiar with the matter recently told ABC News. An increasing number of witnesses have appeared before a grand jury impaneled in Wilmington, Delaware, in recent months, the sources said, and have been asked about payments Hunter Biden received while serving on the board of directors of Ukrainian natural gas company Burisma, in addition to other questions about how Biden paid off tax obligations in recent years. "In retrospect, look, I think that it was poor judgment on my part," Hunter Biden told ABC News anchor Amy Robach in October 2019, regarding serving on the board of Burisma and the impact of his foreign business dealings on his father's political career. "Is that I think that it was poor judgment because I don't believe now, when I look back on it -- I know that there was -- did nothing wrong at all. However, was it poor judgment to be in the middle of something that is ... a swamp in -- in -- in many ways? Yeah." The younger Biden, along with other members of the Biden family, began to receive around-the-clock protection from the Secret Service when Joe Biden became the Democratic presidential nominee in June 2020. The family was provided a more robust security detail once the elder Biden won the presidency, which is customary for all immediate members of a president's family. In Malibu, Hunter Biden's digs include a four-bedroom, three-bathroom "resort-style" home with an open floor plan, vaulted high ceilings, chef's kitchen and French doors, according to a description on its property listing. The mansion also features a "spacious park-like yard" with a pool, a spa, a built-in barbecue bar, and alfresco dining, according to the listing. The property is located on 0.7 acres atop a hill, and boasts "enchanting" 180-degree panoramic ocean views, the listing says. Next door is where sources say Biden's team of Secret Service agents are living and working. The Spanish-style estate that the Secret Service has rented sits on a 0.7-acre lot above the Malibu coast and also features "gorgeous ocean views," according to its listing. With six bedrooms, six bathrooms, a gym, a tasting room, a built-in barbecue, a pool, a spa, and a spiral staircase that leads up to a "castle-like tower to the master retreat with wet bar," the luxury mansion boasts "resort style living at its finest" and is "a perfect retreat for discerning clientele," its listing says. The cost of protecting first families has raised eyebrows in the past. In the first year of Donald Trump's presidency, the Secret Service requested $60 million of additional funding to protect Trump and his family, with about $27 million of that going to protecting them at their private residency at the Trump Tower in New York City, according to internal agency documents obtained by the Washington Post at that time. Throughout Trump's presidency, his family business came under fire for bringing in revenue from the Secret Service by charging for space at various Trump properties across the globe that agents used while protecting Trump and his family members. The total amount that the Secret Service has paid to Trump's family business to date is difficult to pin down, but according to an analysis by the Washington Post, records that have been released so far show that the Secret Service has spent at least $1.2 million at various Trump properties while protecting the Trump family, from $650 per night for a room at Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club to $17,000 a month for a cottage at Trump National Golf Club Bedminster in New Jersey. Numerous overseas business trips taken by Trump's elder sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, also came under scrutiny during Trump's presidency for costing the Secret Service hundreds of thousands of dollars each time, records show. And the security detail that protected Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner cost taxpayers $3,000 a month for the rental of a studio apartment across from the couple's Washington, D.C., home throughout Trump's presidency, sources confirmed to ABC News at the time. During the Obama presidency, both of President Barack Obama's daughters lived in the White House and the president himself visited his private residence in Chicago only a handful of times -- but his family made regular visits to Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts and took family trips to Honolulu during Christmas, costing the Secret Service millions of dollars each time. According to spending records obtained by the right-leaning watchdog group Judicial Watch, the Obama family's trip to Martha's Vineyard in August 2016 cost the Secret Service a whopping $2.7 million, including $2.5 million in hotels and $90,000 in rental cars, while the family's final Christmas trip to Honolulu in late 2016 cost the agency $1.9 million, including $1.8 million in hotels. First Lady Michelle Obama's trips to Aspen in 2014, 2015 and 2016 cost the Secret Service more than $319,000 in taxpayer money, including nearly $166,000 incurred from the 2016 trip, records obtained by the group show. And Joe Biden, as vice president during Obama's presidency, collected $2,200 a month in payments from the Secret Service by renting out a cottage on his Delaware property for the agents protecting him, according to past media reports and federal spending records. Of the high cost sometimes associated with protecting presidential family members, Mihalek said, "I think it's all relative." "Hunter's out in Malibu, which is not a low-cost area," said Mihalek. "And the Trump kids, too, they didn't live in low-cost areas." Mihalek said that for the Secret Service to do their job effectively, they have to have a command post near the protectee -- even if it costs more. "The Secret Service couldn't have a command post in the next town over," he said. "It'd do them no good." Craig Holman, a government affairs lobbyist at progressive good-government group Public Citizen, told ABC News that Secret Service Protection is necessary for the president and the president's family -- but that they should recognize that the agency is there for their own protection and help lower the cost to taxpayers by reducing unnecessary travel or by sharing their own properties free of charge. "Ivanka and Jared should have opened up their house to the Secret Service, just as Hunter Biden should do at his Malibu residence," Holman said. "Hunter should recognize the exorbitant cost of his own protection in the exclusive Malibu neighborhood, and cooperate with the Secret Service to bring down the expenses," said Holman. "A cost of $30,000 a month for the Secret Service to rent a home in Malibu next to Hunter is an unconscionable burden to taxpayers, all for the personal benefit of Hunter Biden. Hunter should realize this and accommodate his security detail in his own home."


Cluster 7 (Total Articles: 42):
Legal and moral taboos were shattered with the use of chemical weapons during Syria's civil war On Location: April 15, 2022 BEIRUT -- The chilling scenes from Syria of victims twitching and gasping for air after chlorine cylinders were dropped from helicopters in towns and villages were broadcast over and over in the course of country's civil war. Legal and moral taboos were shattered. Hundreds were killed, including many children, in dozens of poison gas attacks widely blamed on President Bashar Assad’s forces under the protection of his chief ally, Russian President Vladimir Putin. Several years later, concerns are growing that such weapons could be used in Ukraine, where Russian forces have been waging a devastating war for weeks. As the conflict drags on, Western officials and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy have warned that Putin could deploy chemical agents. “The world must react now,” Zelenskyy said. Officials say they are investigating an unconfirmed claim by a far-right Ukrainian regiment that a poisonous substance was dropped in the besieged city of Mariupol this week. The claim could not be confirmed by independent sources, and Ukrainian officials say it could have been phosphorus munitions - which cause horrendous burns but are not classed as chemical weapons. LOWERING THE THRESHOLD Putin has threatened to broaden the Ukraine war into a nuclear conflict, but it is unclear if chemical agents will be used to support his military operations. Analysts say the Syria war set a horrific precedent in terms of deploying chlorine, sulfur and the nerve agent sarin, completely disregarding international norms and with no accountability. “From what we’re seeing now, it seems that Russia has drawn the conclusion that it’s safe to continue this modus operandi from Syria in the Ukrainian context as well,” said Aida Samani, legal adviser with Civil Rights Defenders, a Sweden-based group. “Of course, that undermines the international regulations that we have in place and lowers the threshold for the use of such weapons,” Samani added. She has joined with other nongovernmental organizations to file a criminal complaint on behalf of a group of Syrians living in Sweden against the Syrian government for war crimes and crimes against humanity related to its use of chemical weapons. Western officials say Russia may be looking to borrow from the Syria playbook, where Assad’s forces tested the international community’s resolve by gradually ramping up the brutality of attacks and methods. Part of the equation in Syria was the difficulty of proving anything in the aftermath of such attacks, largely due to the lack of immediate access. Assad, with Russia’s backing, consistently cast a cloud of confusion, accusing the opposition of fabricating evidence or deploying poison gas themselves to try to frame him. An investigative mechanism set up by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons blamed Syrian government forces for multiple chemical attacks in Syria, including the use of chlorine and sarin in an attack on the town of Khan Sheikhoun in April 2017 that killed about 100 people. At least one mustard gas attack was blamed on the Islamic State group, which held territory in Syria and Iraq for several years during the war that killed half a million people. In comments reminiscent of Syria, Russia accused Ukraine of running chemical and biological labs with U.S. support, leading to accusations Moscow was seeking to stage a false-flag incident. Ukraine does have a network of biological labs that have gotten funding and research support from the U.S. — but they are part of a program seeking to reduce the likelihood of deadly outbreaks by pathogens, whether natural or manmade. The U.S. efforts date to the 1990s to dismantle the former Soviet Union’s program for weapons of mass destruction. RED LINES The assault early on the morning of Aug. 21, 2013, on the rebel-held suburbs of Damascus known as Ghouta shocked a world that had grown largely numb to the carnage of Syria’s civil war. Fueling the international outrage were dozens of online videos showing victims in spasms, gasping for breath and foaming at the mouth. The attack crossed what then-U.S. President Barack Obama had called a “red line” for possible military intervention in the Arab country. Obama came close to ordering U.S.-led military strikes but abruptly backed down after failing to secure the necessary support from the U.S. Congress and instead struck a deal with Moscow to eliminate Syria’s chemical arsenal. By August 2014, Assad’s government declared that the destruction of its chemical weapons was completed. But Syria’s initial declaration to the OPCW has remained in dispute, and the attacks continued. In 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump launched several dozen cruise missiles at a Syrian air base in retaliation for a suspected nerve gas attack on the town of Khan Sheikhoun in rebel-held Idlib province that killed about 100 people. Experts from the U.N. and the chemical weapons watchdog blamed the Syrian government for the attack. As Moscow pushes its offensive in Ukraine, world leaders and policymakers are grappling with how the West should respond to a Russian battlefield use of chemical or biological weapons. Members of Congress said the Biden administration and its allies will not stand by if that happens. Unlike Syria, however, Russia is a nuclear power. Any reaction risks triggering a nuclear confrontation, which Putin has already alluded to. ACHIEVING JUSTICE Samani, of Civil Rights Defenders, faults the international community for not making a real effort to seek accountability for the chemical weapons attacks in Syria. “There hasn’t really been any political appetite to explore how, for example, a special tribunal could be set up for Syria,” she said. Last week, she and a group of NGOs presented new information relevant to the sarin gas attacks on Khan Sheikhun in 2017 and Ghouta in 2013 to investigative authorities in Germany, France and Sweden. But justice appears to be a long way off. “Holding the perpetrators of these crimes accountable for the use of illegal weapons is the first deterrent to ensure that they do not recur,” said Haneen Haddad, project leader for the Syrian Archive, a Syrian-led project that documents human rights violations and other crimes committed in Syria. “Without meaningful accountability, cruel actors and their enablers think that they can do terrible things without real consequence from the international community.” —- Follow the AP’s coverage of the war at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine

Over two year old border restrictions, known as Title 42, end next month.  Biden administration to end border restrictions  The TAKE with Rick Klein A deteriorating political environment means no shortage of small things that can become big things as well as big things that become all-encompassing and devastating. Enter the Biden administration's announcement that strict pandemic border restrictions that have been in place for more than two years, known as Title 42, will end next month. The move has brought predictions of a fresh surge of migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border -- and fears of worsening politics surrounding COVID-19, crime and immigration all in time for the midterms. On ABC's "This Week" Sunday, White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain said the decision to revoke the order, which has been used to quickly expel most migrants apprehended at the border since the start of the pandemic, belongs to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "It's a public-health law," Klain said, adding that the CDC's judgment is that by late May, "the pandemic will be a place where we can no longer exclude people on a public-health rationale. But the mantra of "follow the science" doesn't necessarily square with other Biden administration guidance. As Republicans have been quick to point out, taking a flight or using public transportation still requires masking up, even while virtually all U.S. jurisdictions have dropped mask mandates. As some Democrats have been quick to point out, a dramatic change in policy now could worsen a border crisis and strain agencies and communities. A letter sent to President Joe Biden by Arizona Democratic Sens. Mark Kelly and Kyrsten Sinema on March 24 stated that the senators "have not yet seen evidence that DHS has developed and implemented a sufficient plan to maintain a humane and orderly process in the event of an end to Title 42." Biden aides are loath to admit it, but the Trump-initiated policy at the border has provided political cover in addition to operational authority many Democrats see as necessary policy. Blaming different federal agencies for their independent judgments is not likely to assuage concerns -- political or otherwise. The RUNDOWN with Averi Harper Former Alaska governor and once-vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin is vying for a chance to serve in Congress. Palin’s announcement comes after the March death of Rep. Don Young, who held Alaska’s at-large seat for 49 years. "America is at a tipping point," Palin wrote in a Facebook announcement. "As I've watched the far left destroy the country, I knew I had to step up and join the fight." Palin is reemerging as a political candidate in a Republican Party that is much friendlier to her brand of populism than it was when she was named John McCain's running mate in 2008. Palin's campaign announcement is rife with the same sort of indignation that brought her to prominence 14 years ago and arguably gave way to former President Donald Trump's political rise. "At this critical time in our nation's history, we need leaders who will combat the left's socialist, big-government, America-last agenda," Palin said. "This country was built by heroes, and the radical left dishonors their legacies by opening our borders to illegal immigrants, mortgaging our children's future, and selling out our nation's interests to the highest bidder." Palin is joining a very crowded field, as 51 candidates have filed for the chance to fill the vacancy. Her run coincides with major changes to Alaska's voting system. Palin will appear on the open primary ballot in June, and if she is among the top four candidates, she'll move to the August general election that will employ ranked-choice voting. The TIP with Alisa Wiersema  The first Democratic Senate primary debate of Pennsylvania's campaign season kicked off with three podiums and just two candidates on stage. Although the race's frontrunner, Lt. Gov. John Fetterman, did not attend the Sunday afternoon event, fellow Senate contenders Rep. Connor Lamb and state Rep. Malcolm Kenyatta launched several attacks at Fetterman in his absence. The candidates invoked the lieutenant governor's name on matters of policy and rhetoric, and both called out a 2013 incident in which Fetterman, armed with a shotgun, confronted a Black man after hearing gunfire near his home. At the time, Fetterman was the mayor of Braddock in western Pennsylvania. Since then, he acknowledged his role in the interaction, and has said he wasn't aware of the race or gender of the person he moved to "intercept." In the days leading up to the debate, Lamb claimed Fetterman was skipping the event because he wanted to avoid addressing what happened. Kenyatta posted a graphic with the definition of the word "cowardice" on Twitter in response to a headline about Fetterman sitting out the debate. On Friday, the Fetterman campaign announced he was committed to three other upcoming high-profile debates and spent Sunday meeting with voters in rural Pennsylvania. His approach to the 2022 political landscape appears to echo a broader trend of battleground candidates bucking the traditional campaign timeline in favor of setting their own priorities – and it remains to be seen which approach proves to be successful. While the repeated invocations of the 2013 incident and questions over debate participation could be a hurdle for the frontrunner as he attempts to earn support from every corner of the state's Democratic base, it also marks a shift toward negative campaigning in the otherwise quiet Democratic primary. ONE MORE THING The Secret Service detail protecting President Joe Biden's son, Hunter Biden, has been paying more than $30,000 a month to rent out a swanky Malibu, California, mansion for nearly a year, sources familiar with the matter tell ABC News. The agency selected the property in order to be located as close as possible to Biden's own rented mansion, where he is paying about $20,000 a month, according to property listings, sources said. NUMBER OF THE DAY, powered by FiveThirtyEight 70. That's the percentage of voters in Wyoming who are registered as Republicans, which is why Rep. Liz Cheney is likely in serious trouble this primary season. Much has been made of the fact that registered Democrats and other non-Republicans are eligible to vote in the state's Aug. 16 GOP primary, if they so choose, but as  FiveThirtyEight's Geoffrey Skelley writes, that "crossover vote" won't be enough for Cheney to eke out a victory if Republicans in the state back one of her challengers. THE PLAYLIST ABC News' "Start Here" Podcast. Start Here begins Monday morning with ABC's Terry Moran on the devastation in the formerly Russian-occupied Kyiv suburb of Bucha. Then, ABC's Zohreen Shah details the latest on the mass shooting in Sacramento. And, ABC's Averi Harper previews the vote for Supreme Court nominee Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson. http://apple.co/2HPocUL WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW TODAY Download the ABC News app and select "The Note" as an item of interest to receive the day's sharpest political analysis. The Note is a daily ABC News feature that highlights the day's top stories in politics. Please check back tomorrow for the latest.

Russia’s assault on Ukraine and its veiled threats of using nuclear arms have policymakers past and present thinking the unthinkable: How should the West respond to a Russian battlefield explosion of a nuclear bomb President Zelenskyy proclaims Kyiv region liberated from Russian forces WASHINGTON -- Russia’s assault on Ukraine and its veiled threats of using nuclear arms have policymakers, past and present, thinking the unthinkable: How should the West respond to a Russian battlefield explosion of a nuclear bomb? The default U.S. policy answer, say some architects of the post-Cold War nuclear order, is with discipline and restraint. That could entail stepping up sanctions and isolation for Russian President Vladimir Putin, said Rose Gottemoeller, deputy secretary-general of NATO from 2016 to 2019. But no one can count on calm minds to prevail in such a moment, and real life seldom goes to plan. World leaders would be angry, affronted, fearful. Miscommunication and confusion could be rife. Hackers could add to the chaos. Demands would be great for tough retaliation — the kind that can be done with nuclear-loaded missiles capable of moving faster than the speed of sound. When military and civilian officials and experts have war-gamed Russian-U.S. nuclear tensions in the past, the tabletop exercises sometimes end with nuclear missiles arcing across continents and oceans, striking the capitals of Europe and North America, killing millions within hours, said Olga Oliker, program director for Europe and Central Asia at the International Crisis Group. “And, you know, soon enough, you’ve just had a global thermonuclear war,” Oliker said. It’s a scenario officials hope to avoid, even if Russia targets Ukraine with a nuclear bomb. Gottemoeller, a chief U.S. nuclear negotiator with Russia for the Obama administration, said that the outlines that President Joe Biden has provided so far of his nuclear policy stick with those of past administrations in using atomic weapons only in “extreme circumstances.” “And a single Russian nuclear use demonstration strike, or -- as horrific as it would be -- a nuclear use in Ukraine, I do not think would rise to that level" of demanding a U.S. nuclear response, said Gottemoeller, now a lecturer at Stanford University. For former Sen. Sam Nunn, a Georgia Democrat who over nearly a quarter-century in Congress helped shape global nuclear policy, the option of Western nuclear use has to remain on the table. “That's what the doctrine of mutual assured destruction has been about for a long, long time,” said Nunn, now strategic adviser to the Nuclear Threat Initiative security organization, which he co-founded. “If President Putin were to use nuclear weapons, or any other country uses nuclear weapons first, not in response to a nuclear attack, not in response to an existential threat to their own country ... that leader should assume that they are putting the world in the high risk of a nuclear war, and nuclear exchange,” Nunn said. For U.S. officials and world leaders, discussions of how to respond to a limited nuclear attack are no longer theoretical. In the first hours and days of Russia's invasion, Putin referenced Russia's nuclear arsenal. He warned Western countries to stay out of the conflict, saying he was putting his nuclear forces on heightened alert. Any country that interfered with Russia's invasion would face consequences “such as you have never seen, in your entire history,” Putin declared. How to respond to any use by Russia of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons was among the issues discussed by Biden and other Western leaders when they met in Europe in late March. Three NATO members — the United States, Britain and France — have nuclear weapons. One overarching concern is that by casting some nuclear weapons as tactical weapons to be used in battle, Russia could break the nearly eight-decade global taboo against using a nuclear weapon against another country. Even comparatively small tactical nuclear weapons approach the strength of the atomic bomb the United States dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, in World War II. Gottemoeller and Nunn praise Biden's restraint in the face of Putin's implicit nuclear warnings at the outset of the war. Biden made no known move to raise the U.S. nuclear alert status. The U.S. also postponed a routine Minuteman III test launch last month to avoid escalating tensions. But in the short term and long, the world appears more at risk of a nuclear conflict as a result of Putin's bungled invasion and nuclear threats, according to arms control experts and negotiators. The weaknesses that Russia's invasion exposed in its conventional military forces may leave Putin feeling even more compelled in the future to threaten nuclear use as his best weapon against the far-stronger United States and NATO. While Gottemoeller argued that Ukraine's surrendering of its Soviet nuclear arsenal in 1994 opened the door for three decades of international integration and growth, she said some governments may take a different lesson from nuclear Russia's invasion of non-nuclear Ukraine — that they need nuclear bombs as a matter of survival. Jeffrey Lewis, an arms control expert and professor at the Middlebury Institute, said the nuclear danger is going up. “And we can tell which pathways would cause that risk to go up further. And certainly direct conflict with Russia from forces based in NATO countries is one pathway to a nuclear war,” Lewis said. Gottemoeller took heart in Putin grumbling publicly late last month about “cancel culture.” That suggested he was vulnerable to world condemnation over his Ukraine invasion, and worse to come if he broke the post-World War II taboo on nuclear attack, she said. Detonating a nuclear bomb in a country Putin sought dominion over, one next to his own, wouldn't be rational, Nunn said. But he said neither was Putin's announcement of heightened nuclear alert,. As a young congressional aide during the Cuban missile crisis, Nunn witnessed U.S. officers and pilots in Europe standing by for orders to launch nuclear weapons on the Soviet Union. The danger today isn't yet as great as in the 1962 Cuban missile crisis, when Soviet deployment of nuclear missiles on Cuba raised the threat of nuclear war with the U.S., he said. But the risk of intentional nuclear escalation now is high enough to make a cease-fire in Ukraine crucial, Nunn said. The modern threat of cyberattacks adds to the risk of a mistaken launch. And it's not clear how vulnerable U.S. and, especially, Russian systems are to such hacking attempts, he said. Putin "has been very reckless in his saber rattling with nuclear weapons,” Nunn said. “And that I think has made everything more dangerous, including a blunder.”


Cluster 8 (Total Articles: 17):
President Joe Biden is releasing a budget blueprint that tries to tell voters what the diverse and at times fractured Democratic Party stands for White House backtracks after Biden says Putin 'cannot remain in power' WASHINGTON -- President Joe Biden announced a budget blueprint Monday that calls for higher taxes on the wealthy, lower federal deficits, more money for police and greater funding for education, public health and housing. Appearing at the White House with his budget director Shalanda Young, Biden said the proposal sends a clear message to the public about “what we value.” He outlined a focus on fiscal responsibility, safety and security and investments to “build a better America.” The document essentially tries to tell voters what a diverse and at times fractured Democratic Party stands for ahead of the midterm elections that could decide whether Congress remains under the party's control. The bottom line: Biden is proposing a total of $5.8 trillion in federal spending in fiscal 2023, which begins in October, slightly less than what was projected to be spent this year before the supplemental spending bill was signed into law this month. The deficit would be $1.15 trillion. There would be $795 billion for defense, $915 billion for domestic programs, and the remaining balance would go to mandatory spending such as Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and net interest on the national debt. The higher taxes outlined on Monday would raise $361 billion in revenue over 10 years and apply to the top 0.01% of households. The proposal lists another $1.4 trillion in revenue raised over the next decade through other tax increases that are meant to preserve Biden's pledge to not hike taxes on people earning less than $400,000. The 156-page plan also shows the splinters that persist in Biden's coalition and the possible gaps between the promises of what is being offered and the realities of what ultimately emerges. Biden has backed many of these ideas previously without necessarily getting a full buy-in from Congress. The proposal includes a minimum 20% tax on the incomes of households worth $100 million or more, similar to an earlier proposal Democrats in Congress began debating late last year in order to pay for Biden's domestic spending plans. But those spending plans were put on hold after talks with West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin collapsed. More money would go to support law enforcement, yet bipartisan efforts at police reform have failed. The budget assumes — with a high degree of uncertainty based on forecasts made last November — that inflation at a 40-year peak gets back to normal next year. “Budgets are statements of values,” Biden said in a statement, “and the budget I am releasing today sends a clear message that we value fiscal responsibility, safety and security at home and around the world, and the investments needed to continue our equitable growth and build a better America.” It’s a midterm elections pitch to a nation still off balance from a chaotic few years caused by the pandemic, an economic recession, a recovery, challenges to U.S. democracy, and war in Ukraine. The Biden budget foresees cutting annual deficits by more than $1 trillion over the next decade. Those reductions would occur in large part through higher taxes and the expiration of relief spending tied to the coronavirus outbreak that began in 2020. But like most presidential budgets, it's a proposal and a set of ideals rather than the law of the land. Congress is responsible for implementing the budget through tax and spending legislation and annual agency funding. The proposal faced immediate criticism from Republican lawmakers. They noted that deficits well in excess of $1 trillion annually would persist, said higher taxes could hurt growth and objected that additional government spending would feed into inflation. "What this budget shows is that President Biden values more spending, more debt, more taxes and more pain for the American people,” said Rep. Jason Smith of Missouri, the top Republican on the House Budget Committee. On the tax front, it's unclear how Biden would get his polices through Congress. He had previously negotiated down the proposed 28% corporate tax rate, and his new minimum tax on the ultra wealthy would include “unrealized gains," which are potential profits that exist on paper because the underlying asset has yet to be sold. The result is that the special tax on people worth more than $100 million is unlikely to become law any time soon, said John Gimigliano, head of federal legislative & regulatory services at KPMG. “That is kind of like a slow burn proposal, like let’s continue to have this conversation over months or maybe years," Gimigliano said. While the budget would elevate funding for education, public health and provide $48 billion to increase the supply of affordable housing, it fails to spell out what the broader successor to Biden’s stalled “Build Back Better” agenda would be. That proposal from last year included money for child care, preschool, clean energy and lower health care premiums, but it was blocked by Manchin, the decisive Democratic vote. White House Budget Director Shalanda Young told reporters the blueprint does not include line items tied to that possible bill because “discussions with Congress are ongoing.” But the budget plan includes a “ deficit neutral reserve fund” to account for a possible agreement being reached. The Biden administration looked at a tax increase last year that resembles the 20% minimum on the full income of people worth $100 million or more. But Manchin nixed that idea as divisive. What the Biden administration outlined on Monday would raise $361 billion over 10 years and apply to the top 0.01% of households. The proposal lists another $1.4 trillion in revenue raised over the next decade through other tax changes. Among the tax changes is a 28% corporate tax rate and top individual rate of 39.6%, both increases. Undergirding the plan is a forecast that the economy will return to normal next year after the unprecedented spending tied to the pandemic and inflation. The budget forecasts 4.7% inflation this year and 2.3% in 2023, which would be down from 7% in 2021. Yet prices kept climbing in the first two months of 2022, and Russia's invasion of Ukraine pushed oil, gasoline and natural gas prices higher in ways that could spread across the economy. Cecilia Rouse, chair of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said the administration expects “the economy to normalize” as the country works through waves of the pandemic, supply chain pressures ease and the “extraordinary measures” of support tied to the coronavirus roll off the budget. That normalization would imply inflation falling back to its more typical levels, “but there’s tremendous uncertainty,” Rouse said.

Reed has been detained in Russia since the summer of 2019. Family of former US Marine detained in Russia: ‘We’re desperate’ The parents of Trevor Reed, a 30-year-old U.S. citizen and former Marine currently who has been imprisoned in Russia since 2019, demonstrated outside the White House on Wednesday to urge President Joe Biden to do more to bring their son home amid Russia's violent invasion of Ukraine. When asked by ABC News what they would say to Biden, Joey and Paula Reed said they wanted to remind him of their son's service to the county and to him personally, highlighting his experience as a presidential guard at Camp David. "We want to tell him about our son -- a little bit that he hasn't gotten from a report from someone. Remind him that our son added time to his Marine Corps service so he could be a presidential guard," Joey Reed said. The parents' pleas come as the State Department announced a new advisory Wednesday warning Americans not to travel to Russia or Ukraine and making it explicit that U.S. citizens in Russia could be singled out "including for detention." Trevor Reed has been imprisoned for 956 days and is on the third day of his second hunger strike in the last six months in a prison in Mordovia, Russia, his parents say. Reed suspects he has tuberculosis and a broken rib but has not received "meaningful medical care," they said, so they staged a protest outside the White House to raise awareness about his case. They said he spends most of his days in solitary confinement, constantly getting punished for mundane things like not making his bed properly. "During the day because the room has no real heating and there's cracks in the windows you see your breath all day long. He coils up on the floor next to a hot water pipe to stay warm and then he's given violations for laying on the floor during the daytime," his father told reporters. The Reeds repeatedly told reporters that they want a prisoner swap in exchange for their son. "Our son was willing to give his life for President Biden and his family. And so it's not just that he served his country, he served this president in particular. And not that all of the Americans that are held around the world shouldn't get everything that our government can give -- if that means prisoner trades then so be it, let's get our Americans home," he said. Trevor Reed has been detained in Russia since the summer of 2019 and was sentenced in 2020 to nine years in a Russian prison colony, convicted on charges of violently assaulting two police officers in Moscow following a drunken party in Moscow where he was visiting his girlfriend. Reed's family and U.S. officials say those charges and ones brought for former Marine Paul Whelan, also being detained in Russia, were fabricated in order to seize them as bargaining chips. When Biden was in Reed's home state of Texas earlier this month, his motorcade drove past Reed's parents as they demonstrated a speech he was giving in Fort Worth about helping veterans. Biden called an hour later to apologize for not stopping and promised to meet them in person, according to the White House. "After his event in Fort Worth, the President called Joey and Paula Reed to reiterate his commitment to doing everything he can to bring their son home, to staying in close touch with them through his national security team, and to finding a time to meet in person," a White House official said on March 8. But in the 22 days since that phone call, the Reed family says they have not received any follow-up from a Biden official. The White House had not responded to repeated questions from ABC News since Thursday about why it hasn't yet reached out to Reed's parents until it provided a statement about an hour before the Reeds planned to speak with reporters outside the White House. "The president cannot imagine the pain the Reed family is going through every day," a senior Biden administration official said in a statement. "The president is committed to bringing Trevor and every American unjustly detained overseas home. It is the State Department's highest priority." Asked after prepared COVID-related remarks Wednesday whether he would see Reed's parents while they were in Washington, Biden said: "I'm gonna see if I can get to see them. They're good people." Pressed on whether that meant he would see them Wednesday, Biden said, "We're trying to work that out." "Each day, we worry that our son will become the next Otto Warmbier," the Reed parents said in a statement, referring to an American student who died after detainment in North Korea. "We hope the President will be able to find the time to see us. We need his Administration to stop deliberating and start acting. We believe the President (whom we voted for) is the only person who can save our son's life." The Reeds have also used the moment to raise awareness about other Americans detained in Russia, including WNBA star Brittney Griner and Whelan, who was sentenced to 16 years in prison in what the U.S. ambassador to Russia called a "mockery of justice." "The time is now to bring home Trevor, Paul Whelan and Brittney Griner. As we have said for more than a year, we continue to worry escalating tensions, or rhetoric, could lead to Russian authorities inventing additional false charges against Trevor," they said in the statement. Trevor's parents' said they had asked their son, in one of the few times they've been able to speak since his imprisonment, what he would tell the president -- but said he had nothing to say. "I think that he's forgotten about me," Reed allegedly said. ABC News asked Joey if he thought Biden's comment that seemed to imply he wanted a regime change in Russia hurt their chances of getting their son home. "You'd have to ask Putin," he said. "We believe that -- the comments about Putin -- we don't want to comment on them but obviously they're not helpful. But I guess they speak for themselves," he added. They said they plan to stay in Washington through Friday. ABC News' Patrick Reevell and Conor Finnegan contributed to this report.

Tesla CEO Elon Musk owns a 9% stake in Twitter and is now the social media platform's largest shareholder Tesla CEO Elon Musk acquired a 9% stake in Twitter to become its largest shareholder, just before raising questions about the social media platform’s dedication to free speech and the First Amendment. The ultimate aim of Musk's 73.5 million share purchase worth $3 billion based on the closing price Friday, is not clear. Yet in late March Musk, who has 80 million Twitter followers and is very active on the site, questioned free speech on Twitter and whether the platform is undermining democracy. According to Securities and Exchange filing Monday, Musk bought the shares on March 14, describing him as a long-term investor looking to minimize his buying and selling of the shares. That means that Musk acquired the shares before beginning his public discourse on the First Amendment and Twitter. Yet Musk has also raised the possibility, publicly before his massive and loyal Twitter following, that he could create a rival social media network. Industry analysts are skeptical about whether the mercurial CEO will remain on the sidelines for long. In a note to investors, CFRA Analyst Angelo Zino wrote that although Musk's intent is unclear, Twitter could be viewed as an acquisition target because its shares have been falling since early last year. The company, according to Zino, has failed to adequately monetize the platform during the past several years. Jack Dorsey stepped down as CEO in November. “Musk's actual investment is a very small percentage of his wealth, and an all-out buyout should not be ruled out,” wrote Zino, who covers Twitter and social media. Musk's stake in Twitter more than four times the size of Dorsey's, who co-founded the company and was the largest individual shareholder until Musk arrived. Twitter's stock surged more than 25% Monday. Since Musk bought his stake on March 14, shares of Twitter are up nearly 50%. Twitter did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Musk told his millions of followers on Twitter that he was “ giving serious thought " to creating his own social media platform and has clashed repeatedly with financial regulators about his use of Twitter. His Twitter stock purchase comes as Musk is locked into a bitter dispute with U.S. securities regulators over his ability to post on Twitter. Musk’s lawyer has contended in court motions that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is infringing on the Tesla CEO’s First Amendment rights. In October of 2018, Musk and Tesla agreed to pay $40 million in civil fines and for Musk to have his tweets approved by a corporate lawyer after he tweeted about having the money to take Tesla private at $420 per share. The funding was far from secured and the electric vehicle company remains public, but Tesla’s stock price jumped. The settlement specified governance changes, including Musk’s ouster as board chairman, as well as pre-approval of his tweets. The SEC brought a securities fraud charge, alleging that Musk was manipulating the stock price with his posts. Musk’s lawyer is now asking a U.S. District Court judge in Manhattan to throw out the settlement, contending that the SEC is harassing him and infringing on his First Amendment rights. Early in March, Musk asked Judge Alison Nathan to nullify an SEC subpoena and throw out the settlement agreement. His lawyer, Alex Spiro, said the SEC has used the court agreement “to trample on Mr. Musk’s First Amendment rights and to impose prior restraints on his speech.” The SEC responded in a court motion, saying it has legal authority to subpoena Tesla and Musk about his tweets, and that Musk’s move to throw out the settlement is not valid. The SEC disclosed that it is investigating Musk’s Nov. 6, 2021 tweets that asked followers whether he should sell 10% of his Tesla stake. The commission confirmed that it issued administrative subpoenas while investigating whether Musk and Tesla are complying with disclosure controls in the 2018 agreement. Shortly after Musk's tweets about potentially selling off shares, he began to do just that, and he wrote on Twitter that the sale would go to pay tax obligations on stock options. Analysts estimate his tax obligation at $10 billion to $15 billion. But some of the money could have been used to buy the Twitter stake. So far he has sold more than 15 million shares worth roughly $16.4 billion. With some sales in late December, Musk is close to selling 10%. Regulators are also is investigating whether Tesla described accurately in public filings with the agency whether it complied with the controls. The commission maintains that the subpoenas were lawful, and that Musk isn’t following proper legal procedure to challenge them. SEC attorney Melissa Armstrong called Musk’s challenge “frivolous,” and pointed out that Musk and Tesla agreed to have his tweets pre-approved by other company officials. “Courts have long recognized that ‘congress has vested the SEC with broad authority to conduct investigations into possible violations of federal securities laws and to demand production of evidence relevant to such investigations,’” Armstrong wrote. The subpoenas, issued under seal, come from a formal order by the commission authorizing the investigation. They seek all written communications concerning the Nov. 6 tweets and whether they were shown to Tesla lawyers for pre-approval. Musk's revelation about his stake in Twitter shares comes two days after Tesla Inc. posted first-quarter delivery numbers. While the company delivered 310,000 vehicles in the period, the figure was slightly below expectations. ———— Krisher reported from Detroit.


Cluster 9 (Total Articles: 4):
The judge said Trump's former lawyer John Eastman must turn over documents. Judge finds Trump 'likely' committed obstruction A federal judge has found that former President Donald Trump "more likely than not" committed felony obstruction in the effort to overturn the 2020 presidential election. U.S District Judge David Carter said in the ruling that Trump's former lawyer John Eastman must turn over most documents he is withholding from the Jan. 6 House committee investigating the attack on the U.S Capitol. "Based on the evidence, the Court finds it more likely than not that President Trump corruptly attempted to obstruct the Joint Session of Congress on January 6, 2021," Carter wrote. The judge, who reviewed Eastman's documents, ordered Eastman to turn over all but ten that the court found privileged. In response, Eastman's legal team said in a statement Monday afternoon that Eastman "intends to comply with the court's order" and will turn over the requested documents. In his ruling, Judge Carter, a Clinton appointee, provided a summary of several documents Eastman has sought to block. "The eleventh document is a chain forwarding to Dr. Eastman a draft memo written for President Trump's attorney Rudy Giuliani," Carter wrote. "The memo recommended that Vice President Pence reject electors from contested states on January 6. This may have been the first time members of President Trump's team transformed a legal interpretation of the Electoral Count Act into a day-by-day plan of action." "The draft memo pushed a strategy that knowingly violated the Electoral Count Act, and Dr. Eastman's later memos closely track its analysis and proposal," Carter wrote. "The memo is both intimately related to and clearly advanced the plan to obstruct the Joint Session of Congress on January 6, 2021," wrote the judge. "Because the memo likely furthered the crimes of obstruction of an official proceeding and conspiracy to defraud the United States, it is subject to the crime-fraud exception and the Court ORDERS it to be disclosed."

Russia is the second country ever to be suspended.  What is genocide and has the legal threshold been crossed in Ukraine? The United Nations General Assembly on Thursday voted to pass a resolution to suspend Russia from the U.N. Human Rights Council, in response to Russian forces' alleged killings of civilians in Ukraine. The vote passed with 93 countries voting in favor, 24 voting against and 58 abstaining from voting. Belarus, China, Iran, Russia and Syria were among the countries who voted against the resolution. The vote came amid global outrage over the alleged killings of civilians in Bucha, Ukraine, after Russian forces withdrew from Ukraine's capital, Kyiv. The UNGA needed a two-thirds majority to suspend Russia, now the second country ever suspended after the UNGA voted to remove Libya from the Human Rights Council in 2011 in response to Moammar Gadhafi's violent crackdown on anti-government protesters. In a speech before the vote, a Ukrainian representative urged the assembly to remove Russia from the council. "Suspension of Russia from the human rights council is not an option, but a duty," Sergiy Kyslytsya, Ukraine's permanent representative to the United Nations, said. Speaking after the vote, Russia's deputy permanent member Gennady Kuzmin called the UNGA's decision "an illegitimate and politically motivated step with the aim of demonstratively punishing a sovereign member state of the U.N.," even going as far as calling it "open blackmail of sovereign states." He also claimed the council is "monopolized by one group of states who use it for their short-term aims," and that "such actions violate the mandate entrusted by the international community on the Human Rights Council and overall undermine trust in this body." After the vote was completed, Kuzmin said Russia made the decision to end its membership with the Human Rights Council on Thursday. James Roscoe, a UK diplomat, then asked Russia to clarify, and said, "That sounds like someone who has just been fired, then tendering their resignation." Kuzmin responded, "I think we made a very clear statement." U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken reacted to the vote as he took the stage for a NATO press conference in Brussels. "A country that's perpetuating gross and systematic violations of human rights should not sit on a body whose job it is to protect those rights. Today a wrong was righted," Blinken said during his opening statement. U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, told CNN on Wednesday that they "absolutely" have the votes to suspend Russia. "We have been working very, very hard since this war started to build a coalition of countries who are prepared to condemn Russia. We got 141 votes, the first time we went into the General Assembly. The second time we got 140. And I have no doubt that we can defeat Russia here on the Human Rights Council," Thomas-Greenfield said. She added: "They don't deserve to be on the Human Rights Council." For more coverage: ABC News' Aaron Katersky reports:  -ABC News' Conor Finnegan contributed to this report

Pfizer, Apple, Pepsi and Starbucks are just a few. Russia’s debt situation explained by Deirdre Bolton Russian President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has led some of the biggest companies in the world to change their business relationships with Russia. Though experts say it's unlikely the pauses will have an impact on Russia's invasion, well-known brands have nevertheless reexamined their affiliations, affecting every corner of Russia's economy -- from finance, to food, media, tech and more. Here are some of the companies that have announced they've suspended or scaled-back operations: The owner of Kay Jewelers and Zales and the world's largest retailer of diamond jewelry. Status: Announced on March 17 it had suspended business with Russian-owned entities, the world's biggest source of gems. Statement: "Signet has therefore halted all trade in precious metals and diamonds that originate from such sanctioned Russian sources, and you are therefore requested to stop supplying the same to Signet even though the country(s) in which you operate may not have imposed sanctions on Russian precious metals and diamonds." Multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology corporation. Status: Announced on March 14 it would not continue doing business as usual in Russia and would donate all profits of its Russian subsidiary to causes that provide direct humanitarian support to the people of Ukraine. Statement: "Pfizer concluded that a voluntary pause in the flow of our medicines to Russia would be in direct violation of our foundational principle of putting patients first. Ending delivery of medicines, including cancer or cardiovascular therapies, would cause significant patient suffering and potential loss of life, particularly among children and elderly people. However, maintaining the supply of medicines to Russia does not mean we will continue doing business as usual in Russia. Today we are announcing that effective immediately Pfizer will donate all profits of our Russian subsidiary to causes that provide direct humanitarian support to the people of Ukraine." International investment banking company. Status: Announced on March 11 it was in process of winding down remaining business in Russia and said it would not do any new business in Russia. Statement: "To clarify: Deutsche Bank has substantially reduced its Russian exposure since 2014. Like some international peers and in line with our legal and regulatory obligations, we are in the process of winding down our remaining business in Russia while we help our non-Russian multinational clients in reducing their operations. There won't be any new business in Russia." International money transfer services. Status: Announced on March 10 it would suspend operations in Russia and Belarus. Statement: "The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) stands with the world in condemning the unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine. All of us share the shock, disbelief, and sadness around this tragedy and humanitarian disaster. Our hearts go out to the people of Ukraine and to our colleagues, customers, agents, and partners who have been impacted." American multinational investment bank and financial services. Status: Announced on March 10 it would withdraw operations in Russia. Statement: "In compliance with directives by governments around the world, we have been actively unwinding Russian business and have not been pursuing any new business in Russia." Global financial organization that provides a wide range of services including investment banking, securities, investment managing and consumer banking. Status: Announced on March 10 it would be winding down its business in Russia. Statement: "Goldman Sachs is winding down its business in Russia in compliance with regulatory and licensing requirements," Andrea Williams, a spokesperson for the bank, said in an email. Casual wear that is designed and manufactured in Japan. Status: Announced on March 10 that Fast Retailing, the company that owns Uniqlo, would stop operating in Russia after previously stating it would continue operating in the country. Statement: "While continuing our UNIQLO business in Russia, it has become clear to us that we can no longer proceed due to a number of difficulties. Therefore, we have decided today to temporarily suspend our operations. "Fast Retailing is strongly against any acts of hostility. We condemn all forms of aggression that violate human rights and threaten the peaceful existence of individuals." Company focused on transportation, e-commerce and services. Status: Announced on March 9 it would halt shipments in Russia. Statement: "We are deeply disturbed by what is happening in Ukraine, and our thoughts and solidarity are with the people affected by this ongoing violence. Our top priority is the safety of our team members and their families, and we are providing direct financial assistance to them and the affected communities. We are temporarily suspending all Russian and Belarusian services until further notice. As previously communicated, locations in Ukraine have been temporarily closed and inbound and outbound services to Ukraine have been temporarily suspended." American technology company that specializes in consumer electronics, software and online services. Status: Announced on March 8 it would pause all sales in Russia. Statement: "We are deeply concerned about the Russian invasion of Ukraine and stand with all of the people who are suffering as a result of the violence. We are supporting humanitarian efforts, providing aid for the unfolding refugee crisis, and doing all we can to support our teams in the region." We have taken a number of actions in response to the invasion. We have paused all product sales in Russia. Last week, we stopped all exports into our sales channel in the country. Apple Pay and other services have been limited. RT News and Sputnik News are no longer available for download from the App Store outside Russia. And we have disabled both traffic and live incidents in Apple Maps in Ukraine as a safety and precautionary measure for Ukrainian citizens. We will continue to evaluate the situation and are in communication with relevant governments on the actions we are taking. We join all those around the world who are calling for peace." Food and beverage company with offerings including Pepsi, Lays, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, Aquafina and Tropicana. Status: Announced on March 8 suspension of production and sales in Russia. The company will continue to sell milk, other dairy offerings, baby formula and baby food. Statement from CEO Ramon Laguarta "As a food and beverage company, now more than ever we must stay true to the humanitarian aspect of our business. That means we have a responsibility to continue to offer our other products in Russia, including daily essentials such as milk and other dairy offerings, baby formula and baby food." McDonald's is an American multinational fast-food corporation. Status: Announced on March 8 it will temporarily close restaurants and pause operations in Russia. Statement: "McDonald's has decided to temporarily close all our restaurants in Russia and pause all operations in the market" Multinational chain of coffeehouses and roastery reserves. Status: Announced on March 8 it is suspending all business in Russia. Statement: "We continue to watch the tragic events unfold and, today, we have decided to suspend all business activity in Russia, including shipment of all Starbucks products. Our licensed partner has agreed to immediately pause store operations and will provide support to the nearly 2,000 partners in Russia who depend on Starbucks for their livelihood." Multinational technology company that focuses on e-commerce, cloud computing, digital streaming and artificial intelligence. Status: Announced on March 8 it suspended shipment of retail products to customers based in Russia and Belarus and will no longer accept new Russia and Belarus-based AWS customers and Amazon third-party sellers. It is also suspending access to Prime Video for customers based in Russia and will no longer take orders for New World, which is the only video game sold by Amazon directly in Russia. Statement: "Given the ongoing situation in Russia and Ukraine, we've taken additional actions in the region. We've suspended shipment of retail products to customers based in Russia and Belarus, and we will no longer be accepting new Russia and Belarus-based AWS customers and Amazon third-party sellers. We are also suspending access to Prime Video for customers based in Russia, and we will no longer be taking orders for New World, which is the only video game we sell directly in Russia."  Multinational company specializing in payment card services. Status: Announced on March 6 it will suspend operations in Russia and Belarus. Statement from Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Stephen J. Squeri:  "Earlier today, we announced that we are suspending all operations in Russia. As a result, globally issued American Express cards will no longer work at merchants or ATMs in Russia. Additionally, cards issued locally in Russia by Russian banks will no longer work outside of the country on the American Express global network. We are also suspending all business operations in Belarus. This is in addition to the previous steps we have taken, which include halting our relationships with banks in Russia impacted by the U.S. and international government sanctions."  American subscription streaming service and production company. Status: Announced on March 6 it would suspend services in Russia. Statement: "Given the circumstances on the ground, we have decided to suspend our service in Russia," a spokesperson for Netflix said." American multinational financial services. Status: Announced on March 5 it would suspend all operations from Russia. Statement by a spokesperson:  "We don't take this decision lightly. Mastercard has operated in Russia for more than 25 years. We have nearly 200 colleagues there who make this company so critical to many stakeholders. As we take these steps, we will continue to focus on their safety and well-being, including continuing to provide pay and benefits. When it is appropriate, and if it is permissible under the law, we will use their passion and creativity to work to restore operations." American multinational financial services in digital payments. Status: Announced on March 5 it would suspend all operations in Russia. Statement from Al Kelly, chair and chief executive officer of Visa:  "We are compelled to act following Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed. We regret the impact this will have on our valued colleagues, and on the clients, partners, merchants and cardholders we serve in Russia. This war and the ongoing threat to peace and stability demand we respond in line with our values." Includes consumer electronics, IT & mobile communications, and device solutions. Status: Announced on March 5 it would suspend product shipments to Russia. Statement: "Our thoughts are with everyone who has been impacted and our priority is to ensure the safety of all our employees and their families. We plan to actively support humanitarian efforts around the region, including aid for refugees." American multinational technology company that specializes in computer software, consumer electronics and personal computers. Status: Announced on March 4 it would stop all sales in Russia. Statement from President and Vice-Chair Brad Smith: "We are continuing with the suspension of all new sales of products and services in Russia. We believe we are most effective in aiding Ukraine when we take concrete steps in coordination with the decisions being made by these governments and we will take additional steps as this situation continues to evolve." Short-form mobile video app. Status: Announced on March 4 suspension of new content from Russia. Statement:  "Our highest priority is the safety of our employees and our users, and in light of Russia's new 'fake news' law, we have no choice but to suspend live streaming and new content to our video service in Russia while we review the safety implications of this law."  American video game company. Status: Announced on March 4 it wouldn't sell games, digital content or products in Russia and Belarus. Statement: "We have made the decision to stop sales of our games and content, including virtual currency bundles, in Russia and Belarus while this conflict continues. As a result, our games and content will no longer be available for purchase in our Russian region storefront on Origin or the EA app, including through in-game stores. We are also working with our platform partners to remove our titles from their stores and stop the sale of new in-game content in the region."  Software company known for the Adobe Creative Cloud software suite. Status: Announced on March 4 a halt on all new sales in Russia. Statement from CEO Shantanu Narayen: "Effective immediately, Adobe will halt all new sales of Adobe products and services in Russia."  American organization that works as an internet-based commercial center for housing, homestays and tourism activities. Status: Announced on March 3 it was blocking new host bookings in Russia and Belarus. Website Statement: "This means that we are blocking Host calendars from accepting new bookings in both countries until further notice. We will also restrict users in Belarus and Russia from making new reservations as guests" German motor vehicle manufacturer Status: Announced on March 3 it would stop production of vehicles in Russia and suspend exports.  Statement:  "Against the background of the Russian attack on Ukraine and the resulting consequences, the Group Board of Management of Volkswagen AG has decided to stop the production of vehicles in Russia until further notice. This decision applies to the Russian production sites in Kaluga and Nizhny Novgorod."  Swedish-founded, Dutch-headquartered home furnishing brand. Status: Announced on March 3 it will pause production operations in Russia and Belarus but will continue to be open to ensure people have access to essentials such as food, groceries and pharmaceuticals. Statement:  "Inter IKEA Group has taken the decision to pause all export and import in and out of Russia and Belarus.  Inter IKEA Group has taken the decision to pause all IKEA Industry production operations in Russia. This also means that all deliveries from all sub-suppliers to these units are paused."  Department store chains that sells clothing Status: Announced on March 2 it would divest its equity ownership in Familia, a Russian retailer, in support of the people of Ukraine. Statement: "Given the recent Russian invasion on Ukraine, The TJX Companies, Inc. (TJX) has committed to divesting its equity ownership in Familia in support of the people of Ukraine. As of March 2, 2022, Doug Mizzi and Scott Goldenberg have resigned from their director and observer positions, respectively, on Familia's Board of Directors, effective immediately. As a result of this commitment to divest, TJX may recognize an investment loss when its Familia position is sold. Prior to a sale, TJX may be required to record an impairment charge if the fair value of its Familia investment declines below its carrying value on the balance sheet."  Fast-fashion company that serves men, women, children and has home goods. Status: Announced on March 2 it would pause all sales in Russia. Statement:  "H&M Group is deeply concerned about the tragic developments in Ukraine and stand with all the people who are suffering. H&M Group has decided to temporarily pause all sales in Russia. The stores in Ukraine have already been temporarily closed due to the safety of customers and colleagues."  Film production and distribution company owned by Comcast through the NBCUniversal Film and Entertainment division of NBCUniversal. Status: Announced on March 1 it would pause all theatrical releases in Russia. Statement:  "In response to the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, Universal Pictures has paused planned theatrical releases in Russia," said a spokesperson in a statement.  American film and television production and distribution company and the main namesake subsidiary of Paramount Global. Status: Announced on March 1 it will pause theatrical releases in Russia. Statement: "As we witness the ongoing tragedy in Ukraine, we have decided to pause the theatrical release of our upcoming films in Russia, including The Lost City and Sonic the Hedgehog 2. We stand by all those impacted by the humanitarian crisis across Ukraine, Russia and our international markets and will continue to monitor the situation as it unfolds." Online video sharing and social media platform owned by Google. Status: Announced on March 1 it would start blocking RT & Sputnik YouTube's across Europe. On March 11, announced it would remove content about Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Statement: "Our Community Guidelines prohibit content denying, minimizing or trivializing well-documented violent events. We are now removing content about Russia's invasion in Ukraine that violates this policy." Media and entertainment studio conglomerate that produces, acquires and distributes filmed entertainment through multiple platforms. Status: Announced on Feb. 28 it would halt release of new films in Russia. Statement: "Given the ongoing military action in Ukraine and the resulting uncertainty and humanitarian crisis unfolding in that region, we will be pausing our planned theatrical releases in Russia, including the upcoming release of Morbius. Our thoughts and prayers are with all those who have been impacted and hope this crisis will be resolved quickly," concluded the emailed statement, via a spokesperson for Sony Pictures Entertainment. The Walt Disney Company is an American multinational entertainment and media conglomerate and the parent company of ABC News. Status: Announced on Feb. 28 it was pausing new releases in Russia. Statement by a spokesperson: "Given the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and the tragic humanitarian crisis, we are pausing the release of theatrical films in Russia, including the upcoming Turning Red from Pixar. We will make future business decisions based on the evolving situation. In the meantime, given the scale of the emerging refugee crisis, we are working with our NGO partners to provide urgent aid and other humanitarian assistance to refugees." Multinational shipping, receiving and supply chain management company. Status: Announced on Feb. 27 it would suspend delivery service to Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. Statement by a spokesperson: "[We] put contingency plans in place to continue serving customers, while not flying in restricted areas. That includes not overflying Russia." ABC News' Justin Gomez, Will Kim, Christine Theodorou, William Gretsky, Zunaira Zaki, Alexandra Faul, Victor Ordonez, Matt Foster, Isabella Murray and Peter Madden contributed to this report.

