
Cluster 4 (Total Articles: 63):
A former U.S. Marine who died last week in Ukraine was believed to be the first American citizen killed while fighting there Speaker Pelosi meets Zelenskyy in unannounced visit to Kyiv Harrison Jozefowicz quit his job as a Chicago police officer and headed overseas soon after Russia invaded Ukraine. An Army veteran, he said he couldn't help but join American volunteers seeking to help Ukrainians in their fight. Jozefowicz now heads a group called Task Force Yankee, which he said has placed more than 190 volunteers in combat slots and other roles while delivering nearly 15,000 first aid kits, helping relocate more than 80 families and helping deliver dozens of pallets of food and medical supplies to the southern and eastern fronts of the war. It's difficult, dangerous work. But Jozefowicz said he felt helpless watching from the United States last year during the U.S. pullout from Afghanistan, particularly after a close friend, Staff Sgt. Ryan Knauss, died in a suicide bombing at Kabul. "So, I’m just trying to do everything I can to make sure I can help others not go through what I went through,” he said Saturday during an interview conducted through a messaging platform. A former U.S. Marine who died last week was believed to be the first American citizen killed while fighting in Ukraine. Willy Joseph Cancel, 22, died Monday while working for a military contracting company that sent him to Ukraine, his mother, Rebecca Cabrera, told CNN. An undetermined number of other Americans — many with military backgrounds — are thought to be in the country battling Russian forces beside both Ukrainians and volunteers from other countries even though U.S. forces aren't directly involved in fighting aside from sending military materiel, humanitarian aid and money. The U.S. government discourages Americans from fighting in Ukraine, which raises legal and national security issues. Russia’s invasion has given Ukraine's embassy in Washington the task of fielding inquiries from thousands of Americans who want to help in the fight, and Ukraine is using the internet to recruit volunteers for a foreign force, the International Legion of Defense of Ukraine. “Anyone who wants to join the defense of security in Europe and the world can come and stand side by side with the Ukrainians against the invaders of the 21st century,” President President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a recruitment pitch. Texan Anja Osmon, who did tours in Iraq and Afghanistan while serving in the U.S. Army from 2009 through 2015, said she went to Ukraine on her own. A medic, she said she arrived in Ukraine on March 20 and lived in the woods with other members of the International Legion before a new commander sent her away because he didn’t want female fighters. Osmon, 30, said her mother wants her home before September. But for now she’s anxious to get out of the hotel where she is staying in Lviv and catch on with another fighting force nearer the action. “I can’t turn away from injustice,” she said. “No one should be scared.” U.S. Marine veteran Eddy Etue said he quit his job in the gig economy, found a friend in Colorado to watch his cat and gave up his home four blocks from the beach in San Diego, California, to help out in Ukraine, where he's been about two weeks. He first worked with an aid organization but now is training with the International Legion. Etue, 36, said he simply couldn't stay home. “It's just the right thing to do,” said Etue, who financed the journey through an online fundraising campaign. Etue's family history pulled him toward Ukraine. He said his grandparents left Hungary with nothing but their four children and clothes after the 1956 revolution, which was put down by Soviet forces that killed or wounded thousands. “What’s happening here will affect not only the people who are experiencing it but their children and grandchildren as well," he said. "I know that from personal experience.” Jozefowicz, the former Chicago cop, says there are thousands of American and other volunteers in Ukraine. Multiple organizations are operating in the country, and Jozefowicz said his group alone has placed scores of volunteers in positions all over the country, with about 40 of those being combat jobs. “We do not facilitate a civilian going into any direct-action role. We only guide and connect prior military volunteers,” he said. But there's plenty of other work to do. Groups of volunteers are getting medical and food supplies to people in the nation of 44 million people, he said, and others are working with refugees and others who've had to flee their homes. “The closer I got into Ukraine and the more time I spent in Ukraine, the more voids I found that needed to be filled to maximize my groups volunteer efforts,” he said. Osmon, who said she's been in contact with Jozefowicz's group, said she supplied troops with antibiotics and anti-inflammatory medications after days in the woods. “Most everyone had air raid fever from hiding in the trenches in the snow and cold air,” she said. “Bronchitis was ravaging us.” Etue said he got a feel for the country after making a 24-hour round trip with another volunteer to pick up a vehicle in Odessa. He said he's been impressed with the quality of people serving in the International Legion since Ukrainians have done a good job of weeding out the inexperienced and “war tourists” who don't have much to offer a military unit. “I think they’re doing amazingly well given that they’re at war with one of the largest standing armies in the world,” he said.

Russian authorities have opened a criminal case against a prominent opposition activist and remanded him in pre-trial detention for allegedly spreading “false information” about the country’s armed forces Ukrainian fighters resist Russian forces at Mariupol steel plant Russian authorities have opened a criminal case against a prominent opposition activist and remanded him in pre-trial detention Friday for allegedly spreading “false information” about the country’s armed forces. A court in Moscow ordered Vladimir Kara-Murza Jr. held in detention until June 12. Lawyer Vadim Prokhorov told reporters that the false information case against Kara-Murza cited a March 15 speech to the Arizona House of Representatives, in which he denounced the war in Ukraine, as the basis for the latest charges. The activist rejects the accusations. Russian media reported that similar charges were being drawn up against outspoken tech executive Ilya Krasilshchik, the former publisher of Russia's top independent news site, Meduza. The moves against the two Kremlin critics are part of a widening crackdown against individuals speaking out against Russia's war in Ukraine. Russia adopted a law criminalizing spreading false information about its military shortly after its troops rolled into Ukraine in late February. The offense is punishable by up to 15 years in prison. Human rights advocates so far have counted 32 cases targeting critics of the invasion. Kara-Murza is a journalist and a former associate of late Russian opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, who was assassinated in 2015, and oligarch-turned-dissident Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who was jailed for years in Russia. Kara-Murza himself was hospitalized with poisoning symptoms twice, in 2015 and 2017. Arizona Speaker of the House Rusty Bowers denounced the Russian government's moves against Kara-Murza. “I am deeply disturbed over news reports regarding the arrest and political persecution of Russian opposition leader Vladimir Kara-Murza," Bowers said in a statement. “Don’t forget about these freedom fighters, like Vladimir Kara-Murza. We must remember names!" Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey tweeted: “Kara-Murza’s brave opposition to Putin has inspired us all. Arizona will always stand for freedom. And we will support those like Kara-Murza who take a stand against oppression.” Krasilshchik, the tech executive who left Russia in early March, told Meduza that he had learnt about the case against him from news reports, which by Friday evening remained unconfirmed. Russian media have linked the charges to an Instagram post, featuring what Krasilshchik said was the photo of charred human remains in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha. “You can’t recover after seeing the images from Bucha,” the photo caption read. “You feel that the army of this country of ours, it’s capable of anything … and so is the country. That we’re just an order away from mass executions.” Also Friday, veteran Russian human rights activist Lev Ponomaryov said in an online statement that he was “temporarily” leaving the country. Ponomaryov, a former State Duma lawmaker who had helped found Russia’s oldest human rights organization in the 1980s, has been a vocal opponent of Russia’s attack on Ukraine, and initiated multiple public petitions against it. In his statement Friday, he claimed to be “allowing himself to take a vacation” to “look after my health …, but also think through the difficult situation in which we all find ourselves, and plan further (campaigning) activities, which we cannot stop by any means.” “I doubt my time away will be long,” he added. In a separate move Friday, the Russian justice ministry added Kara-Murza and several other prominent Kremlin critics to the registry of “foreign agents.” The designation implies additional government scrutiny and carries strong pejorative connotations that can discredit those on the list. The new additions to the registry included Leonid Volkov, top ally of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny, and Alexei Venediktov, former editor-in-chief of Russia's oldest critical radio station, Ekho Moskvy. The station was taken off the airwaves shortly after Russia invaded Ukraine. ——— Associated Press writer Bob Christie in Phoenix contributed to this report. ——— Follow AP's coverage of the war in Ukraine: https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine

The sprawling European science lab that houses the world’s largest atom smasher is taking new steps that will further limit its cooperation with Russian research institutes GENEVA -- The sprawling European science lab that houses the world’s largest atom smasher is taking new steps that will further limit its cooperation with Russian research institutes in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The CERN Council, the governing body of the Geneva-based lab with 23 member states, announced Friday that its scientists will suspend participation in all scientific committees in Russia and neighboring Belarus, a Russian ally that facilitated the Feb. 24 invasion. CERN, the historic acronym for what is now the European Organization for Nuclear Research, had grappled with its response to the invasion because nearly 7% of its 18,000-odd researchers from around the world are linked to Russian institutions. On March 8, the council suspended new collaborations with Russia and stripped Russia of its observer status at the organization. The issue of whether to further sanction Russia became pressing because the Large Hadron Collider, the world’s largest and most powerful particle accelerator, is set to start its third-ever run next month. The machine propels particles through an underground, 27-kilometer (17-mile) ring of superconducting magnets in and around Geneva, generating science that can help elucidate mysteries like dark matter or the standard model of particle physics. Russian scientists have been involved in planning multiple experiments. Under the new measures approved Friday, CERN will suspend all joint events with Russian institutes and pause considering any new candidates from Russia and Belarus to join the organization's staff. The council also announced that it will suspend all collaboration with the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, an international grouping of 19 member nations based in Dubna, Russia. More than half of the members are former Soviet republics, including Ukraine, but they also include Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, North Korea, and Vietnam.


Cluster 7 (Total Articles: 24):
President Joe Biden is ordering the release of 1 million barrels of oil per day from the nation’s strategic petroleum reserve for six months in a bid to control energy prices US average gas prices come down to $4.24 per gallon WASHINGTON -- President Joe Biden is ordering the release of 1 million barrels of oil per day from the nation’s strategic petroleum reserve for six months, the White House said Thursday, in a bid to control energy prices that have spiked as the U.S. and allies imposed steep sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. Biden was to formally announce the release in remarks on his administration’s plans to combat rising gas prices. The White House said Biden would also call on Congress to impose financial penalties on oil and gas companies that lease public lands but aren’t producing. He also intends to invoke the Defense Production Act to encourage the mining of critical minerals for batteries in electric vehicles. The White House characterized the release of the petroleum as a bridge until output increases from domestic producers. Administration officials estimate that average production will grow by 1 million barrels daily this year and an additional 700,000 barrels daily in 2023. The move by Biden shows that oil remains a key vulnerability for the U.S. at home and abroad. Higher prices have hurt Biden’s approval domestically, while also adding billions of oil-export dollars to the Russian war chest as it wages war on Ukraine. The release of reserves in the U.S. would create pressures that could reduce oil prices, though Biden has already twice ordered releases from the strategic reserves without causing a meaningful shift in oil markets. Part of Biden's concern is that high prices have not — so far — coaxed a meaningful jump in oil production. The planned release is a way to increase supplies. The markets reacted quickly with crude oil prices dropping more than 3% on Thursday morning to roughly $104 a barrel. Still, oil is up from roughly $60 a year ago, with supplies failing to keep up with demand as the world economy has begun to rebound from the coronavirus pandemic. Americans on average use about 21 million barrels of oil daily, with about 40% of the consumption devoted to gasoline, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Domestic oil production is equal to more than half of the country's usage, but high prices have not led companies to return to their pre-pandemic levels of output. The U.S. is producing on average 11.7 million barrels daily, down from 13 million barrels in early 2020. Republican lawmakers have said the problem rests with the Biden administration being hostile to oil permits and the construction of new pipelines such as the Keystone XL. Democrats have countered that the country needs to move to renewable energy such as wind and solar that could reduce the dependence on fossil fuels and Russian President Vladimir Putin's leverage. "I think the administration’s anti-fossil fuel views are sort of like a religion," Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell told Punchbowl News in a Thursday interview. "They’re kind of unconnected with the needs of not only our country but the world. This policy is driven by the hard left, which the president almost never crosses. And, until that policy changes, we’re gonna have a problem.” Oil producers have been more focused on meeting the needs of investors than consumers, according to a survey released last week by the Dallas Federal Reserve. About 59% of the executives surveyed said investor pressure to preserve “capital discipline” amid high prices was the reason they weren’t pumping more, while fewer than 10% blamed government regulation. The steady release from the reserves would be a meaningful sum and come near to closing the domestic production gap relative to February 2020, before the coronavirus caused a steep decline in oil output. The Biden administration in November announced the release of 50 million barrels from the strategic reserve in coordination with other countries. And after the Russia-Ukraine war began, the U.S. and 30 other countries agreed to an additional release of 60 million barrels from reserves, with half of the total coming from the U.S. According to the Department of Energy, which manages it, more than 568 million barrels of oil were held in the reserve as of March 25. News of the administration’s planning was first reported by Bloomberg. ——— Associated Press writer Michael Balsamo contributed to this report.

The luxury rental property has "gorgeous ocean views," according to its listing. Federal investigation into Hunter Biden’s tax affairs  Hunter Biden is apparently spending his father's presidency living in luxury in Malibu -- and so is his taxpayer-funded security detail. The Secret Service detail protecting the president's controversial son has been paying more than $30,000 a month to rent out a swanky Malibu, California, mansion for nearly a year, sources familiar with the matter tell ABC News. The agency responsible for protecting the president and his family -- among other ranking government officials -- selected the property in order to be located as close as possible to Biden's own rented mansion where he is paying about $20,000 a month according to property listings, sources told ABC News. Retired senior Secret Service agent Don Mihalek, now an ABC News contributor, said the arrangement is "the cost of doing business for the Secret Service," adding that under the federal law, the agency has a mandated protective responsibility for the president, the first family, and anybody else the president designates for protection. "Typically, wherever a protectee sets up their residence, the Secret Service is forced to find someplace to rent nearby at market value," Mihalek said, noting that the agency is also renting out properties to protect President Joe Biden's residences in Wilmington and Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. "This isn't new," Mihalek said. "The Service has had to do this in past administrations, and unfortunately, the housing market right now has driven the prices up substantially." A White House official referred ABC News to the Secret Service for comment. Asked about the cost of the protection, a representative for the Secret Service said only: "Due to the need to maintain operational security, the U.S. Secret Service does not comment on the means, methods, or resources used to conduct our protective operations." A representative for Hunter Biden did not respond to requests for comment from ABC News. Hunter Biden's California lifestyle is coming into focus just as the federal probe into his tax affairs has intensified, as sources familiar with the matter recently told ABC News. An increasing number of witnesses have appeared before a grand jury impaneled in Wilmington, Delaware, in recent months, the sources said, and have been asked about payments Hunter Biden received while serving on the board of directors of Ukrainian natural gas company Burisma, in addition to other questions about how Biden paid off tax obligations in recent years. "In retrospect, look, I think that it was poor judgment on my part," Hunter Biden told ABC News anchor Amy Robach in October 2019, regarding serving on the board of Burisma and the impact of his foreign business dealings on his father's political career. "Is that I think that it was poor judgment because I don't believe now, when I look back on it -- I know that there was -- did nothing wrong at all. However, was it poor judgment to be in the middle of something that is ... a swamp in -- in -- in many ways? Yeah." The younger Biden, along with other members of the Biden family, began to receive around-the-clock protection from the Secret Service when Joe Biden became the Democratic presidential nominee in June 2020. The family was provided a more robust security detail once the elder Biden won the presidency, which is customary for all immediate members of a president's family. In Malibu, Hunter Biden's digs include a four-bedroom, three-bathroom "resort-style" home with an open floor plan, vaulted high ceilings, chef's kitchen and French doors, according to a description on its property listing. The mansion also features a "spacious park-like yard" with a pool, a spa, a built-in barbecue bar, and alfresco dining, according to the listing. The property is located on 0.7 acres atop a hill, and boasts "enchanting" 180-degree panoramic ocean views, the listing says. Next door is where sources say Biden's team of Secret Service agents are living and working. The Spanish-style estate that the Secret Service has rented sits on a 0.7-acre lot above the Malibu coast and also features "gorgeous ocean views," according to its listing. With six bedrooms, six bathrooms, a gym, a tasting room, a built-in barbecue, a pool, a spa, and a spiral staircase that leads up to a "castle-like tower to the master retreat with wet bar," the luxury mansion boasts "resort style living at its finest" and is "a perfect retreat for discerning clientele," its listing says. The cost of protecting first families has raised eyebrows in the past. In the first year of Donald Trump's presidency, the Secret Service requested $60 million of additional funding to protect Trump and his family, with about $27 million of that going to protecting them at their private residency at the Trump Tower in New York City, according to internal agency documents obtained by the Washington Post at that time. Throughout Trump's presidency, his family business came under fire for bringing in revenue from the Secret Service by charging for space at various Trump properties across the globe that agents used while protecting Trump and his family members. The total amount that the Secret Service has paid to Trump's family business to date is difficult to pin down, but according to an analysis by the Washington Post, records that have been released so far show that the Secret Service has spent at least $1.2 million at various Trump properties while protecting the Trump family, from $650 per night for a room at Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club to $17,000 a month for a cottage at Trump National Golf Club Bedminster in New Jersey. Numerous overseas business trips taken by Trump's elder sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, also came under scrutiny during Trump's presidency for costing the Secret Service hundreds of thousands of dollars each time, records show. And the security detail that protected Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner cost taxpayers $3,000 a month for the rental of a studio apartment across from the couple's Washington, D.C., home throughout Trump's presidency, sources confirmed to ABC News at the time. During the Obama presidency, both of President Barack Obama's daughters lived in the White House and the president himself visited his private residence in Chicago only a handful of times -- but his family made regular visits to Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts and took family trips to Honolulu during Christmas, costing the Secret Service millions of dollars each time. According to spending records obtained by the right-leaning watchdog group Judicial Watch, the Obama family's trip to Martha's Vineyard in August 2016 cost the Secret Service a whopping $2.7 million, including $2.5 million in hotels and $90,000 in rental cars, while the family's final Christmas trip to Honolulu in late 2016 cost the agency $1.9 million, including $1.8 million in hotels. First Lady Michelle Obama's trips to Aspen in 2014, 2015 and 2016 cost the Secret Service more than $319,000 in taxpayer money, including nearly $166,000 incurred from the 2016 trip, records obtained by the group show. And Joe Biden, as vice president during Obama's presidency, collected $2,200 a month in payments from the Secret Service by renting out a cottage on his Delaware property for the agents protecting him, according to past media reports and federal spending records. Of the high cost sometimes associated with protecting presidential family members, Mihalek said, "I think it's all relative." "Hunter's out in Malibu, which is not a low-cost area," said Mihalek. "And the Trump kids, too, they didn't live in low-cost areas." Mihalek said that for the Secret Service to do their job effectively, they have to have a command post near the protectee -- even if it costs more. "The Secret Service couldn't have a command post in the next town over," he said. "It'd do them no good." Craig Holman, a government affairs lobbyist at progressive good-government group Public Citizen, told ABC News that Secret Service Protection is necessary for the president and the president's family -- but that they should recognize that the agency is there for their own protection and help lower the cost to taxpayers by reducing unnecessary travel or by sharing their own properties free of charge. "Ivanka and Jared should have opened up their house to the Secret Service, just as Hunter Biden should do at his Malibu residence," Holman said. "Hunter should recognize the exorbitant cost of his own protection in the exclusive Malibu neighborhood, and cooperate with the Secret Service to bring down the expenses," said Holman. "A cost of $30,000 a month for the Secret Service to rent a home in Malibu next to Hunter is an unconscionable burden to taxpayers, all for the personal benefit of Hunter Biden. Hunter should realize this and accommodate his security detail in his own home."

Pfizer, Apple, Pepsi and Starbucks are just a few. Russia’s debt situation explained by Deirdre Bolton Russian President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has led some of the biggest companies in the world to change their business relationships with Russia. Though experts say it's unlikely the pauses will have an impact on Russia's invasion, well-known brands have nevertheless reexamined their affiliations, affecting every corner of Russia's economy -- from finance, to food, media, tech and more. Here are some of the companies that have announced they've suspended or scaled-back operations: The owner of Kay Jewelers and Zales and the world's largest retailer of diamond jewelry. Status: Announced on March 17 it had suspended business with Russian-owned entities, the world's biggest source of gems. Statement: "Signet has therefore halted all trade in precious metals and diamonds that originate from such sanctioned Russian sources, and you are therefore requested to stop supplying the same to Signet even though the country(s) in which you operate may not have imposed sanctions on Russian precious metals and diamonds." Multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology corporation. Status: Announced on March 14 it would not continue doing business as usual in Russia and would donate all profits of its Russian subsidiary to causes that provide direct humanitarian support to the people of Ukraine. Statement: "Pfizer concluded that a voluntary pause in the flow of our medicines to Russia would be in direct violation of our foundational principle of putting patients first. Ending delivery of medicines, including cancer or cardiovascular therapies, would cause significant patient suffering and potential loss of life, particularly among children and elderly people. However, maintaining the supply of medicines to Russia does not mean we will continue doing business as usual in Russia. Today we are announcing that effective immediately Pfizer will donate all profits of our Russian subsidiary to causes that provide direct humanitarian support to the people of Ukraine." International investment banking company. Status: Announced on March 11 it was in process of winding down remaining business in Russia and said it would not do any new business in Russia. Statement: "To clarify: Deutsche Bank has substantially reduced its Russian exposure since 2014. Like some international peers and in line with our legal and regulatory obligations, we are in the process of winding down our remaining business in Russia while we help our non-Russian multinational clients in reducing their operations. There won't be any new business in Russia." International money transfer services. Status: Announced on March 10 it would suspend operations in Russia and Belarus. Statement: "The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) stands with the world in condemning the unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine. All of us share the shock, disbelief, and sadness around this tragedy and humanitarian disaster. Our hearts go out to the people of Ukraine and to our colleagues, customers, agents, and partners who have been impacted." American multinational investment bank and financial services. Status: Announced on March 10 it would withdraw operations in Russia. Statement: "In compliance with directives by governments around the world, we have been actively unwinding Russian business and have not been pursuing any new business in Russia." Global financial organization that provides a wide range of services including investment banking, securities, investment managing and consumer banking. Status: Announced on March 10 it would be winding down its business in Russia. Statement: "Goldman Sachs is winding down its business in Russia in compliance with regulatory and licensing requirements," Andrea Williams, a spokesperson for the bank, said in an email. Casual wear that is designed and manufactured in Japan. Status: Announced on March 10 that Fast Retailing, the company that owns Uniqlo, would stop operating in Russia after previously stating it would continue operating in the country. Statement: "While continuing our UNIQLO business in Russia, it has become clear to us that we can no longer proceed due to a number of difficulties. Therefore, we have decided today to temporarily suspend our operations. "Fast Retailing is strongly against any acts of hostility. We condemn all forms of aggression that violate human rights and threaten the peaceful existence of individuals." Company focused on transportation, e-commerce and services. Status: Announced on March 9 it would halt shipments in Russia. Statement: "We are deeply disturbed by what is happening in Ukraine, and our thoughts and solidarity are with the people affected by this ongoing violence. Our top priority is the safety of our team members and their families, and we are providing direct financial assistance to them and the affected communities. We are temporarily suspending all Russian and Belarusian services until further notice. As previously communicated, locations in Ukraine have been temporarily closed and inbound and outbound services to Ukraine have been temporarily suspended." American technology company that specializes in consumer electronics, software and online services. Status: Announced on March 8 it would pause all sales in Russia. Statement: "We are deeply concerned about the Russian invasion of Ukraine and stand with all of the people who are suffering as a result of the violence. We are supporting humanitarian efforts, providing aid for the unfolding refugee crisis, and doing all we can to support our teams in the region." We have taken a number of actions in response to the invasion. We have paused all product sales in Russia. Last week, we stopped all exports into our sales channel in the country. Apple Pay and other services have been limited. RT News and Sputnik News are no longer available for download from the App Store outside Russia. And we have disabled both traffic and live incidents in Apple Maps in Ukraine as a safety and precautionary measure for Ukrainian citizens. We will continue to evaluate the situation and are in communication with relevant governments on the actions we are taking. We join all those around the world who are calling for peace." Food and beverage company with offerings including Pepsi, Lays, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, Aquafina and Tropicana. Status: Announced on March 8 suspension of production and sales in Russia. The company will continue to sell milk, other dairy offerings, baby formula and baby food. Statement from CEO Ramon Laguarta "As a food and beverage company, now more than ever we must stay true to the humanitarian aspect of our business. That means we have a responsibility to continue to offer our other products in Russia, including daily essentials such as milk and other dairy offerings, baby formula and baby food." McDonald's is an American multinational fast-food corporation. Status: Announced on March 8 it will temporarily close restaurants and pause operations in Russia. Statement: "McDonald's has decided to temporarily close all our restaurants in Russia and pause all operations in the market" Multinational chain of coffeehouses and roastery reserves. Status: Announced on March 8 it is suspending all business in Russia. Statement: "We continue to watch the tragic events unfold and, today, we have decided to suspend all business activity in Russia, including shipment of all Starbucks products. Our licensed partner has agreed to immediately pause store operations and will provide support to the nearly 2,000 partners in Russia who depend on Starbucks for their livelihood." Multinational technology company that focuses on e-commerce, cloud computing, digital streaming and artificial intelligence. Status: Announced on March 8 it suspended shipment of retail products to customers based in Russia and Belarus and will no longer accept new Russia and Belarus-based AWS customers and Amazon third-party sellers. It is also suspending access to Prime Video for customers based in Russia and will no longer take orders for New World, which is the only video game sold by Amazon directly in Russia. Statement: "Given the ongoing situation in Russia and Ukraine, we've taken additional actions in the region. We've suspended shipment of retail products to customers based in Russia and Belarus, and we will no longer be accepting new Russia and Belarus-based AWS customers and Amazon third-party sellers. We are also suspending access to Prime Video for customers based in Russia, and we will no longer be taking orders for New World, which is the only video game we sell directly in Russia."  Multinational company specializing in payment card services. Status: Announced on March 6 it will suspend operations in Russia and Belarus. Statement from Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Stephen J. Squeri:  "Earlier today, we announced that we are suspending all operations in Russia. As a result, globally issued American Express cards will no longer work at merchants or ATMs in Russia. Additionally, cards issued locally in Russia by Russian banks will no longer work outside of the country on the American Express global network. We are also suspending all business operations in Belarus. This is in addition to the previous steps we have taken, which include halting our relationships with banks in Russia impacted by the U.S. and international government sanctions."  American subscription streaming service and production company. Status: Announced on March 6 it would suspend services in Russia. Statement: "Given the circumstances on the ground, we have decided to suspend our service in Russia," a spokesperson for Netflix said." American multinational financial services. Status: Announced on March 5 it would suspend all operations from Russia. Statement by a spokesperson:  "We don't take this decision lightly. Mastercard has operated in Russia for more than 25 years. We have nearly 200 colleagues there who make this company so critical to many stakeholders. As we take these steps, we will continue to focus on their safety and well-being, including continuing to provide pay and benefits. When it is appropriate, and if it is permissible under the law, we will use their passion and creativity to work to restore operations." American multinational financial services in digital payments. Status: Announced on March 5 it would suspend all operations in Russia. Statement from Al Kelly, chair and chief executive officer of Visa:  "We are compelled to act following Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed. We regret the impact this will have on our valued colleagues, and on the clients, partners, merchants and cardholders we serve in Russia. This war and the ongoing threat to peace and stability demand we respond in line with our values." Includes consumer electronics, IT & mobile communications, and device solutions. Status: Announced on March 5 it would suspend product shipments to Russia. Statement: "Our thoughts are with everyone who has been impacted and our priority is to ensure the safety of all our employees and their families. We plan to actively support humanitarian efforts around the region, including aid for refugees." American multinational technology company that specializes in computer software, consumer electronics and personal computers. Status: Announced on March 4 it would stop all sales in Russia. Statement from President and Vice-Chair Brad Smith: "We are continuing with the suspension of all new sales of products and services in Russia. We believe we are most effective in aiding Ukraine when we take concrete steps in coordination with the decisions being made by these governments and we will take additional steps as this situation continues to evolve." Short-form mobile video app. Status: Announced on March 4 suspension of new content from Russia. Statement:  "Our highest priority is the safety of our employees and our users, and in light of Russia's new 'fake news' law, we have no choice but to suspend live streaming and new content to our video service in Russia while we review the safety implications of this law."  American video game company. Status: Announced on March 4 it wouldn't sell games, digital content or products in Russia and Belarus. Statement: "We have made the decision to stop sales of our games and content, including virtual currency bundles, in Russia and Belarus while this conflict continues. As a result, our games and content will no longer be available for purchase in our Russian region storefront on Origin or the EA app, including through in-game stores. We are also working with our platform partners to remove our titles from their stores and stop the sale of new in-game content in the region."  Software company known for the Adobe Creative Cloud software suite. Status: Announced on March 4 a halt on all new sales in Russia. Statement from CEO Shantanu Narayen: "Effective immediately, Adobe will halt all new sales of Adobe products and services in Russia."  American organization that works as an internet-based commercial center for housing, homestays and tourism activities. Status: Announced on March 3 it was blocking new host bookings in Russia and Belarus. Website Statement: "This means that we are blocking Host calendars from accepting new bookings in both countries until further notice. We will also restrict users in Belarus and Russia from making new reservations as guests" German motor vehicle manufacturer Status: Announced on March 3 it would stop production of vehicles in Russia and suspend exports.  Statement:  "Against the background of the Russian attack on Ukraine and the resulting consequences, the Group Board of Management of Volkswagen AG has decided to stop the production of vehicles in Russia until further notice. This decision applies to the Russian production sites in Kaluga and Nizhny Novgorod."  Swedish-founded, Dutch-headquartered home furnishing brand. Status: Announced on March 3 it will pause production operations in Russia and Belarus but will continue to be open to ensure people have access to essentials such as food, groceries and pharmaceuticals. Statement:  "Inter IKEA Group has taken the decision to pause all export and import in and out of Russia and Belarus.  Inter IKEA Group has taken the decision to pause all IKEA Industry production operations in Russia. This also means that all deliveries from all sub-suppliers to these units are paused."  Department store chains that sells clothing Status: Announced on March 2 it would divest its equity ownership in Familia, a Russian retailer, in support of the people of Ukraine. Statement: "Given the recent Russian invasion on Ukraine, The TJX Companies, Inc. (TJX) has committed to divesting its equity ownership in Familia in support of the people of Ukraine. As of March 2, 2022, Doug Mizzi and Scott Goldenberg have resigned from their director and observer positions, respectively, on Familia's Board of Directors, effective immediately. As a result of this commitment to divest, TJX may recognize an investment loss when its Familia position is sold. Prior to a sale, TJX may be required to record an impairment charge if the fair value of its Familia investment declines below its carrying value on the balance sheet."  Fast-fashion company that serves men, women, children and has home goods. Status: Announced on March 2 it would pause all sales in Russia. Statement:  "H&M Group is deeply concerned about the tragic developments in Ukraine and stand with all the people who are suffering. H&M Group has decided to temporarily pause all sales in Russia. The stores in Ukraine have already been temporarily closed due to the safety of customers and colleagues."  Film production and distribution company owned by Comcast through the NBCUniversal Film and Entertainment division of NBCUniversal. Status: Announced on March 1 it would pause all theatrical releases in Russia. Statement:  "In response to the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, Universal Pictures has paused planned theatrical releases in Russia," said a spokesperson in a statement.  American film and television production and distribution company and the main namesake subsidiary of Paramount Global. Status: Announced on March 1 it will pause theatrical releases in Russia. Statement: "As we witness the ongoing tragedy in Ukraine, we have decided to pause the theatrical release of our upcoming films in Russia, including The Lost City and Sonic the Hedgehog 2. We stand by all those impacted by the humanitarian crisis across Ukraine, Russia and our international markets and will continue to monitor the situation as it unfolds." Online video sharing and social media platform owned by Google. Status: Announced on March 1 it would start blocking RT & Sputnik YouTube's across Europe. On March 11, announced it would remove content about Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Statement: "Our Community Guidelines prohibit content denying, minimizing or trivializing well-documented violent events. We are now removing content about Russia's invasion in Ukraine that violates this policy." Media and entertainment studio conglomerate that produces, acquires and distributes filmed entertainment through multiple platforms. Status: Announced on Feb. 28 it would halt release of new films in Russia. Statement: "Given the ongoing military action in Ukraine and the resulting uncertainty and humanitarian crisis unfolding in that region, we will be pausing our planned theatrical releases in Russia, including the upcoming release of Morbius. Our thoughts and prayers are with all those who have been impacted and hope this crisis will be resolved quickly," concluded the emailed statement, via a spokesperson for Sony Pictures Entertainment. The Walt Disney Company is an American multinational entertainment and media conglomerate and the parent company of ABC News. Status: Announced on Feb. 28 it was pausing new releases in Russia. Statement by a spokesperson: "Given the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and the tragic humanitarian crisis, we are pausing the release of theatrical films in Russia, including the upcoming Turning Red from Pixar. We will make future business decisions based on the evolving situation. In the meantime, given the scale of the emerging refugee crisis, we are working with our NGO partners to provide urgent aid and other humanitarian assistance to refugees." Multinational shipping, receiving and supply chain management company. Status: Announced on Feb. 27 it would suspend delivery service to Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. Statement by a spokesperson: "[We] put contingency plans in place to continue serving customers, while not flying in restricted areas. That includes not overflying Russia." ABC News' Justin Gomez, Will Kim, Christine Theodorou, William Gretsky, Zunaira Zaki, Alexandra Faul, Victor Ordonez, Matt Foster, Isabella Murray and Peter Madden contributed to this report.


Cluster 6 (Total Articles: 31):
COVID-19 rules for travelers will vary depending on the destination How pandemic drastically changed career paths for women What happens if I get COVID-19 while traveling? Depending on your destination, it could result in an unexpected change in plans, such as being required to stay isolated in a hotel. It's why the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that you have backup plans ready if you're traveling abroad. You might have to stay longer than planned if you test positive. In some places, you won't be able to board flights until you test negative. In others, you might also be required to stay in a quarantine facility. Since results from a PCR test can remain positive for weeks after an infection, those who have had COVID-19 might have to get documentation from a doctor or health authorities saying they've recovered. Some travel only requires an antigen test. If you end up needing medical treatment, check with your embassy for suggested health care providers. Keep in mind that some countries still have overwhelmed health care systems due to the pandemic. Plan time for recovery since some countries — including the U.S. — require a negative test for reentry. Exceptions to this policy may be granted on an “extremely limited” basis, such as in the event of an emergency medical evacuation or humanitarian crisis, says the CDC. It also helps to be financially prepared to pay unexpected bills. While it varies country to country, travelers are often responsible for costs associated with any isolation or medical treatments needed. Travel companies suggest getting insurance that will cover the cost of treatment, isolation or rescheduled travel plans. Some countries require that you have insurance before you’re allowed to enter. ——— The AP is answering your questions about the coronavirus in this series. Submit them at: FactCheck@AP.org. Read more here: What do we know about the new omicron mutant? Can your pet get COVID-19? How has the COVID-19 pandemic changed after two years?

"Our biggest fear right now is him getting home at all." Parents of ex-Marine detained in Russia protest at White House  It's been three years since Joey and Paula Reed have seen their son Trevor, a former Marine currently held in a Russian prison, and now they're afraid the ongoing conflict with Ukraine means their chances for his return are dwindling. The couple spoke with ABC News' "Start Here" Tuesday and discussed the latest developments in their fight to bring their son home. Joey Reed said the situation is going "downhill" as communications with their son have diminished since the start of the Russian invasion and on Monday he was reportedly sent to a prison hospital. He said he fears that Russian officials may take more action against his son and other Americans currently held in their prisons and is urging President Joe Biden to act. "Our biggest fear right now is him getting home at all. We're concerned that they're going to put additional charges, false charges on him, which that's typical FSB and or he will die," Joey Reed told ABC News. Trevor Reed's detention began in 2019 when his family says he was visiting a girlfriend in Moscow. The 30-year-old was arrested after Russian authorities said he allegedly assaulted a police officer while drunk. When asked by Reed's attorneys, video from inside the car, Russian authorities did not present any evidence that he grabbed the wheel or assaulted the officers. But a year later Reed was sentenced to nine years in a Russian penal colony. Paula Reed said her family tried to raise awareness for their son's imprisonment, but they struggled to get any headway due to other topics taking up the headlines, including the start of the pandemic. "It just seemed like Trevor couldn't get a break because every time we thought we were going to get some news out there, something bigger was happening in the world that got the attention. So it took us a long time to get our feet running on getting publicity," she told ABC News. The Reeds have also been calling for the release of Paul Whelan, another ex-Marine who has been imprisoned in Russia since 2020 following a conviction. The family has picked up their calls for help, and last week protested outside the White House and asked to meet with the president. "We just thought that they would see us and it would remind someone that they need to be together for a meeting," Joey Reed said. Biden met with the family after their protest. The Reeds said during their meeting, which lasted over half an hour, they reiterated their calls to Biden for a prisoner exchange. "We think that that's the only way Trevor is going to get back with any time soon," Paula Reed said. She added that her son is losing hope of ever returning home and pickup up his life where it left off. "The longer he's in prison, the harder that's going to be for him to do," she said. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said in a statement that, "during their meeting, the president reiterated his commitment to continue to work to secure the release of Trevor, Paul Whelan, and other Americans wrongfully held in Russia and elsewhere, and to provide all possible assistance until they and others are free and returned home to their families who are advocating so passionately for their release." The White House declined to comment about specific details discussed between Biden and Reed's parents. The Reeds said they felt the president was mindful of their requests. "He's a good man. He had a son in the military. He's lost children and he's compassionate," Joey Reed said. "We believe that after hearing us out that I can't imagine that he's not doing something to speed up the process for bringing our son home." In the meantime, the Reeds said that the government needs to do more to defend and bring back Americans wrongfully imprisoned abroad. "We just want to get him out of there alive and the sooner, the better," Joey Reed said.

ABC News contacted officials from health departments in all 50 states. Vaccines explained by Dr. Jen Ashton While top U.S. health officials are urging some Americans to get yet another coronavirus booster shot, local health departments across the country are grappling with a growing dilemma -- how to address a declining demand for vaccines, while minimizing the waste of unused millions of doses currently in state stockpiles and at risk of expiring. Since the emergency use authorization of the first COVID-19 vaccines in the U.S. last winter, federal data shows that states received a staggering 720 million doses, and more than 570 million of those shots have been administered. However, an ABC News analysis of state-provided data found that millions of those shots have not ended up in arms, largely due to a significant decline in the number of individuals willing to get vaccinated — with many vaccine doses now left unused in refrigerators or discarded in trash cans across the country. ABC News contacted officials from health departments in all 50 states, and in analyzing state provided data, found that tens of millions of COVID-19 vaccine doses have either gone to waste, remain unused, or will expire in the coming weeks and months. "It is a tremendous loss of opportunity for these vaccines to not make it into the shoulders of those who need them," C. Buddy Creech, director of the Vanderbilt Vaccine Research Program and associate professor of pediatric infectious diseases, told ABC News. "Not only is it a financial loss for the purchaser of vaccines -- the U.S. government -- but also a significant health loss for those who are not yet protected from COVID and its complications." How some states are working to ensure shots don't go unused Although the total number of vaccines at risk of being wasted is not publicly accessible in every state, available data provides insight into some states' efforts to ensure the shots do not go unused. "We have worked with local public health to fill orders for vaccine from providers with existing inventory versus ordering new doses, and to redistribute vaccine with soon to expire dates to use up inventory within the state before we order more with longer expiration dates," Lynn Sutfin, spokesperson for the Michigan Department of Health told ABC News. "Our field reps are moving vaccines across the state to help redistribute as needed to avoid wastage." In Michigan, about 1.7 million doses have been wasted since Dec. 2020, and more than 100,000 more doses are set to expire in the next two weeks. Vaccine dose wastage can result from a variety of issues, including dropped vials and syringes; and improperly prepared, unused, or expiring vaccine doses, various officials reported. "Most of the wasted or unused doses are reported because a provider punctures a multidose vial in order to give someone a vaccine but does not necessarily have enough people to give the remaining doses before the vial expires," a representative for the State Joint Information Center in Colorado, where more than 619,000 doses have been unused, told ABC News. "This is aligned with CDC's best practices that advise providers to not miss any opportunity to vaccinate every eligible person." In large states like California, where more than 70% of residents are fully vaccinated, nearly 3.6 million shots are sitting in the state's stockpile, according to state data. Similarly, in North Carolina, where 60% of residents have completed their primary vaccination series, 856,000 shots are currently available under state inventory, while 1.7 million shots have been wasted after the doses expired or were improperly opened. Nearly 760,000 vaccine doses have been designated as non-viable, spoiled, or expired, officials in Oregon reported, but officials told ABC News that such totals are "not unexpected." "As demand for vaccines wanes, we expect there to be a similar drop in the number of doses vaccine providers request and, as a result, a decrease in the number of unused doses. Oregon will be left with excess inventory, but we believe that we have done everything we can to minimize waste," a representative for the Oregon Health Authority told ABC News. Many states ordered hundreds of thousands of vaccine doses in bulk in order to ensure they had enough shots to meet demand, but in many cases, the need turned out to not be as high as initially expected. Although the total number of shots wasted in states was high, many state organizers stressed that the overall percentage of wasted doses was relatively low, in comparison to the number of shots provided to residents. Officials said they continue to work to minimize wastage by controlling the amount of vaccine that is ordered and shipped to the state, and by redistributing vaccine when possible within the state. 55 million eligible Americans still without a shot Last spring, millions of Americans flocked to COVID-19 vaccination clinics across the country to get their shots. In April of 2021, when every adult became eligible to get vaccinated, more than two million people were getting their first doses every day. Overall, more than 220 million Americans have received a shot, representing about two-thirds of the U.S. population. Earlier this month, a new study from The Commonwealth Fund found that the U.S. COVID-19 vaccine program is now estimated to have prevented 2.2 million deaths, 17 million hospitalizations and 66.1 million additional infections through March 2022. Now, a little less than a year later, with those most eager to get the shots now inoculated, vaccination rates have plummeted, federal data shows. A sizable group of more than 55 million eligible Americans remain unvaccinated against the virus. "The pool of people that are unvaccinated is likely to remain unconvinced of the importance of vaccine-induced protection," Dr. John Brownstein, an epidemiologist at Boston Children's Hospital and an ABC News contributor, said, adding that convincing those still hesitant to get the shot will be a difficult feat. In recent weeks, following the introduction of a fourth COVID-19 vaccine dose for some older and high-risk populations, there has been a slight uptick in the overall number of doses administered. However, the number of Americans initiating vaccination remains at a near record low of just over 50,000 Americans getting their first dose every day. "Efforts including incentives, improved convenience, mandates and targeted public health messaging during a surge have all had various successes in increasing vaccination rates. It's hard to imagine what might influence someone to change their stance especially with cases at low levels and restrictions being lifted," Brownstein said. Dr. Stephen Morse, an epidemiologist at Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health, described the waste of millions of COVID-19 doses in the U.S. as a "tragic combination of events." "The vaccine development was both one of the miraculous triumphs and one of the tragedies of the COVID response," Morse told ABC News, further referencing a combination of factors to blame, including vaccine nationalism, in which wealthy countries, such as the U.S., pre-ordered large quantities of the shots, making less vaccine available for the rest of the world, and persistent issues with vaccine hesitancy. "We naïvely underestimated the extent of vaccine hesitancy and resistance, some driven by what WHO called the 'infodemic' of misinformation and disinformation, which persists to this day," Morse said. Vaccine access and wastage a stark reminder of privilege Some politicians and public health experts have raised concerns over the ethical implications of so many shots going to waste. "The wastage of millions of doses is a stark reminder of the privilege we have had in accessing vaccines while the majority of the world had to wait months. Extraordinary resources and financial investment will ultimately go to waste," Brownstein said. Delaware Sen. Chris Coons warned last week that millions of COVID-19 vaccine doses, which were set to be shipped overseas, could expire, without proper funding from Congress. "I was so disappointed that we, in Congress, could not come together and deliver critically needed global help to deliver the vaccines that we've already invented, developed and purchased, and to make sure that the nearly 3 billion people around the world who haven't yet had a single vaccine dose get some protection against this pandemic," Coons told CBS' "Face the Nation." "We'll negotiate what we have to in order to secure a chance to move forward and not waste the vital vaccines America has already purchased," Coons added. There may be additional ethical concerns about not donating enough shots to ensure that people can receive a full vaccination series. "There are significant operational and potentially ethical issues around donating vaccines to other countries; is it ethical to donate the first dose when there is no guarantee of a second? What if the vaccine has not yet been approved in that country? Given how rigorously we regulate and authorize vaccines around the world, it is likely no surprise that the process of donating vaccines can become complicated very quickly," Creech added. Even if states wanted to donate their stockpiles to other countries in need, with so many doses left unused in the U.S., Brownstein explained that logistically, such donations would be near impossible. "Once a vaccine ends up at a site, it is administered or thrown out. There is usually no third option of sending it to another site and even lower chance it could go to another state let alone another country," Brownstein said. "These expired doses are a reminder of our challenged logistical platforms. While we optimized for distribution to vaccination sites, there was very little capacity to shift supply especially across jurisdictions." A continued concern for many health experts is vaccinating the rest of the globe, as they say the pandemic will never truly subside until vaccine-use is widespread and equitable. "Assuming we won't get immediate supply for most of the world, the best solution might be to retest and determine if we can legitimately extend shelf life," Morse said, adding that he does not believe donating short-dated doses is realistic. "We certainly should intensify efforts to provide vaccine now to those who, for some reason, haven't yet been vaccinated and may now be willing to take it if vaccine is easily available," Morse said. "Unfortunately, in the U.S., I fear we've reached diminishing returns by now. It would have been far better if everyone had gotten two doses early on, which might have slowed the virus down."


Cluster 2 (Total Articles: 39):
Sens. Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski and Mitt Romney will vote for Jackson. Ketanji Brown Jackson earns more bipartisan support for confirmation Three Republican senators -- Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Mitt Romney of Utah -- have taken the political risk of breaking from their party to vote for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's confirmation to the Supreme Court this week, elevating the first Black woman to the nation's highest court in its 233-year history. Democrats on Monday were able to advance Jackson's nomination out of the Senate Judiciary Committee by a 53-47 vote, with the help of those three Republicans, putting President Joe Biden's nominee on a clear path to being confirmed later this week by the full Senate. But it's unclear if they will face blowback from constituents or colleagues as they continue to explain their reasoning. Collins was the first Republican to pledge her support to Jackson last week, after meeting twice with the nominee who she said alleviated her concerns. Murkowski and Romney's endorsements followed on Monday, to the relief of the Biden White House, which had pushed for a bipartisan vote. Jackson left "quite an impression" on Murkowski during her Judiciary Committee hearings, where "she was put under some pretty, pretty intense scrutiny, and I think you saw grace under pressure there," Murkowski said. "There was a level of personal attack that was not warranted," she added, also calling out corrosive politics around the confirmation process. "This is an awful process it's just awful," Murkowski said. "We're strapped into it, we're so divided now. We are to that point where it is almost automatic where if it is a president who is not of my party puts forth a nominee I am somehow obligated to just barely even give consideration." Moments after Murkowski announced her intention Monday, Romney followed suit -- becoming the only Republican to reverse course and announce plans to support Jackson after previously voting against her confirmation to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit last year. He told reporters Tuesday that he got to yes after becoming convinced she's within the "mainstream." "In her previous confirmation votes I had concerns about whether she was in the mainstream and having spent time with her personally and reviewing her testimony before Congress I became convinced that she is in the mainstream," Romney said. While Jackson did, then, get the support of Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., on that vote, Graham said he will vote no this time around, adding that Jackson wouldn't have been given hearings had Republicans controlled the Senate. Republicans, led by Sen Josh Hawley, R-Mo., repeatedly challenged Jackson's sentencing of child porn offenders during the proceedings in an effort to paint her as "soft on crime" -- a label Democrats dismissed as false. (A handful of offenders received sentences below federal guidelines from Jackson, but the prison terms were above those recommended by the probation officer, putting her in the mainstream of judicial action.) Romney, like Collins and Murkowski, also lamented Tuesday that the process of confirming Supreme Court nominees has becoming increasingly politicized. "I think, perhaps, we are going to have to reconsider the process that we are going to pursue in the future in part because you could have a setting where you have a president of one party and a Senate of another, and maybe there will be a change," Romney said. "But at this stage, I was convinced that Judge Jackson is well qualified, intelligent capable, and I became convinced that she is within the mainstream." Collins said she was "delighted" to learn that her colleagues had "reached a similar conclusion" on Jackson's confirmation, adding she'd had "some conversations" with the two before they announced their positions but only learned of their support "earlier yesterday". She also raised concerns with the, at times, combative process wrecking the court's credibility. "I hope we can get back to a time where we have bipartisan support for qualified Supreme Court nominees because it is important for public confidence in the court," Collins said. "The court is not supposed to be a politicized institution, and if the nomination process leading up to confirmation is overly political, I believe it undermines the public's confidence in our courts and regrettably that's what we've seen with the last few nominees." While Collins aired concerns with some of Jackson's sentences, she said in a statement that the fact she "will not agree with every vote that she casts as a Justice...is not disqualifying."

The vice president asked Ralph Warnock and Cory Booker to capture the moment. Who is Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson? As she presided over Thursday's historic confirmation vote for Ketanji Brown Jackson to become the first Black woman to sit on the Supreme Court, Vice President Kamala Harris gave an assignment to Sens. Raphael Warnock and Cory Booker -- the only two Black Democrats in the Senate: Write a letter, using the vice president's official stationery, to a young Black girl in their lives. Before the vote, Warnock, speaking on the Senate floor, had spoken of the historic aspect of Judge Jackson's confirmation by talking about his own daughter. "Yes I'm a Senator, I'm a pastor, beyond all of that I am a father of young Black girl. I know how much it means for Judge Jackson to have navigated the double jeopardy of racism and sexism to now stand in the glory of this moment, in all of her excellence," Warnock said. "For my five-year-old daughter and for so many young women in our country, but really if we're thinking about it right for all of us, seeing Judge Jackson ascend to the Supreme Court reflect the promise of progress on which on democracy rests. So, what a great day it is in America," he said. Later, Warnock shared on Twitter "Dear Chloé, Today, we confirmed Ketanji Brown Jackson to the United States Supreme Court," he wrote. "In our nation's history, she is the first Supreme Court Justice who looks like you – with hair like yours." Booker said he has not yet decided who will get his letter. After the vote, Harris said, "There is so much about what's happening in the world now that is presenting the worst of ... human behavior," Harris said. "And then we have a moment like this that I think reminds us that there is so much left to accomplish." ABC News' Rachel Scott contributed to this report.

The conservative activist is the wife of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Who is Virginia Thomas? The committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol is expected to ask the wife of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, Virginia "Ginni" Thomas, for her cooperation following revelations of messages obtained by congressional investigators in which she repeatedly urged then-White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows to attempt to overturn the results of the 2020 election, according to sources familiar with committee members' deliberations. While the committee was debating asking Thomas for her voluntary cooperation, there are others on the panel who believe the committee should take the more aggressive step of attempting to compel her testimony via subpoena, the sources say. "Help This Great President stand firm, Mark!!!" Thomas wrote to Meadows on Nov. 10 after the election had been officially called for Joe Biden. "You are the leader, with him, who is standing for America's constitutional governance at the precipice. The majority knows Biden and the Left is attempting the greatest Heist of our History." Meadows, who did not respond to all of Thomas' missives, texted in late November that Trump's challenge of the election results was "a fight of good versus evil." The text messages were among the thousands of pages of text messages, emails and documents Meadows voluntarily turned over to the committee last year before he reversed course and decided not to cooperate with the inquiry. Sources familiar with the messages confirmed their authenticity to ABC News. "Evil always looks like the victor until the King of Kings triumphs," Meadows wrote in one text. "Do not grow weary in well doing. The fight continues. I have staked my career on it. Well at least my time in DC on it." "Thank you!! Needed that! This plus a conversation with my best friend just now ... I will try to keep holding on. America is worth it," Thomas replied.


Cluster 8 (Total Articles: 7):
Will Smith's stunning slap of comic Chris Rock onstage at the Oscars instantly takes a prominent place on this list of stunning live television moments in entertainment NEW YORK -- Will Smith's Oscars slap wasn't the first time an unexpected moment on a live televised entertainment event left mouths agape. Here other notables: JANET JACKSON'S SUPER BOWL SHOW Janet Jackson and Justin Timberlake were reaching the end of their “Rock Your Body” duet at the 2004 Super Bowl halftime show when he yanked off her bustier, briefly revealing a bare breast with a sunburst nipple protector. The sheer scale of the event, with some 90 million people watching, made it a huge moment. Broadcaster CBS insisted it was as surprised as viewers at home, and it's still murky today whose idea it was. The phrases “wardrobe malfunction” and “nipplegate” joined the lexicon in its wake, a crackdown on television “indecency” was launched, and Jackson's career never fully recovered. KANYE INTERRUPTS TAYLOR SWIFT A 19-year-old Taylor Swift was thrilled to accept a “moon man” trophy at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards when Kanye West stepped on her celebration. Appearing on the Radio City Music Hall stage, he took the microphone and said that while he was happy for Swift, “Beyonce had one of the best videos of all time.” He shrugged and handed the mic back to a clearly crestfallen Swift, left to stand alone as the crowd shrieked in shock. Bad blood between the music megastars lingered. OOPS! WRONG ENVELOPE When Warren Beatty opened the envelope supposedly containing the name of the best picture winner at the 2017 Oscars, he looked briefly confused before showing it to co-presenter Faye Dunaway, who anointed “La La Land” with the Oscar. Beatty's face was the hint something had gone awry: He'd been given the wrong envelope. After nearly 2 minutes of the wrong cast and producers celebrating onstage, the record was corrected. “Moonlight” had won. The accountants on duty that night lost — they were reassigned. SINEAD O'CONNOR'S RIP During rehearsals for her 1992 “Saturday Night Live” performance of the Bob Marley song, “War,” singer Sinead O'Connor had held up a picture of a child killed by police. But during the live show, she held a picture of Pope John Paul II that had hung on her mother's wall, and ripped it, to protest sexual abuse by priests. Condemnation was swift; even Frank Sinatra called her “one stupid broad.” Looking back years later, O'Connor wrote in a memoir, “I feel like having a No. 1 record derailed my career, and my tearing the photo put me back on the right track.” SOY BOMB Bob Dylan was in the midst of a career renaissance, invited to perform his song “Love Sick” at the Grammy Awards in 1998. As he sang, a shirtless man with the words “soy bomb” written on his torso appeared behind in a strangely contorting dance before being hustled off by security. Performance artist Michael Portnoy had been hired to stand in the background but, as he explained to the Hollywood Reporter later, “it was such a perfect format to do something inscrutable.” “AND THE NEW MISS UNIVERSE IS...” It was the climactic moment of the 2015 Miss Universe awards, and host Steve Harvey dramatically announced the winner, Miss Colombia. She stood on the stage for a few minutes and basked in the applause, waving the Colombian flag and blowing kisses. The crown was placed atop her head. Then Harvey sheepishly approached. “I have to apologize,” he said. She was actually the first runner-up. Miss Philippines was the winner. Harvey owned up to the mistake, which made for excruciating television. LET'S DO THE STREAK Streaking, or running naked in a public place, was a thing in 1974. Ray Stevens even had a hit song about it. So it couldn't have come as a complete surprise when a Los Angeles teacher, Robert Opel, stripped and rain onstage at that year's Oscars ceremony as actor David Niven talked. Opel had supposedly posed as a journalist to get in. There's been some suspicion that it was staged: Opel, who was murdered in a robbery attempt in 1979, appeared backstage later to talk about his stunt. Either way, Niven reacted with poise in quipping: “Isn't it fascinating to think that probably the only laugh that man will ever get in his life is by stripping off and showing his shortcomings?”

Will Smith slapping Chris Rock at the Oscars provoked intense opinions online, especially from comedians who felt it was an assault on their art Will Smith has onstage confrontation with Chris Rock at Oscars NEW YORK -- Will Smith slapping Chris Rock at the Oscars provoked intense opinions online, especially from comedians who felt it was an assault on their art. “Let me tell you something, it’s a very bad practice to walk up on stage and physically assault a comedian,” Kathy Griffin wrote on Twitter. “Now we all have to worry about who wants to be the next Will Smith in comedy clubs and theaters. The violent exchange began when Rock took verbal aim at Jada Pinkett Smith’s shaved head, saying, “Jada, I love you. ‘G.I. Jane 2,’ can’t wait to see it, all right?” Rock’s reference was made from the 1997 film “G.I. Jane,” starring Demi Moore, who shaved her head to portray a fictional Navy Seal candidate. Will Smith, her husband, walked onto the stage and took a swing at Rock with an open palm, generating a loud smack. Smith walked back to his seat and shouted for Rock to leave Pinkett Smith alone. Rock replied that he was just making a “G.I. Jane” joke — and Smith yelled back at him a second time. Smith shouted at Rock to “keep my wife’s name out of your (expletive) mouth,” and the crowd hushed as it became clear this was no act. Smith later won the best actor Oscar; Rock chose not to file a police report. “Will Smith owes Chris Rock a huge apology. There is no excuse for what he did. He’s lucky Chris is not filing assault charges," producer, director and actor Rob Reiner commented on Twitter. George Takei said Smith's losing his cool was a bad look when so many people were watching: “Many people, especially kids, look up to actors. Because of that, we have an obligation to try to be good role models. With celebrity comes responsibility.” Pinkett Smith revealed in 2018 that she was diagnosed with alopecia. She has often discussed the challenges of hair loss on Instagram and other social media platforms. Some commentators noted that alopecia is a painful experience that many Black women go through and should not be joked about. Rock himself helped create the documentary “Good Hair,” exploring African American women and their relationship to their hair. Nicki Minaj put herself in Pinkett Smith's shoes. “Imagine what it must feel like to be losing your hair to the point where you have to shave it bald. You think that’s easy to deal with for anyone? You don’t think she’s cried about that many times?” she wrote on Twitter. Many in the auditorium after the altercation came to support Smith, including Daniel Kaluuya, Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban. In the hours later, the hashtags #ProtectBlackWomen trended. ”Sometimes when you’re speaking about somebody’s wife, you can’t really help that. So that’s what I would say,” Mj Rodriguez told The AP at the Vanity Fair Oscar party. However unfunny Rock's joke was, it paled in comparison to some awards show digs in years past, including from acerbic Ricky Gervais, who has skewered the likes of Leonardo DiCaprio, Judi Dench and Felicity Huffman. Judd Apatow was highly critical of Smith in a now-deleted Twitter post, describing the attack “out of control rage and violence.” He noted that celebrities have been the target of jokes for decades: "They’ve heard a million jokes about them in the last three decades. They are not freshman in the world of Hollywood and comedy. He lost his mind.” Richard Marx said no poor joke justified the response: “I guess millions of people can’t comprehend that no level of fame or accolades gives license to commit battery over a verbal joke.” And Mark Hamill called the incident the ugliest Oscar moment ever, tweeting “Stand-up comics are very adept at handling hecklers. Violent physical assault... not so much." Janai Nelson, president and director-counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, wrote: “I know we’re all still processing, but the way casual violence was normalized tonight by a collective national audience will have consequences that we can’t even fathom in the moment.” But former late-night talk show host Conan O’Brien was among those making light of the situation, writing on Twitter: “Just saw the Will Smith slap. Anyone have a late night show I can borrow just for tomorrow?” ——— The Associated Press' Jill Dobson contributed to this report. ——— Mark Kennedy is at http://twitter.com/KennedyTwits ——— For more of AP’s Oscar coverage visit: https://apnews.com/hub/academy-awards

A security guard at the British embassy in Berlin has been extradited from Germany and charged with spying for Russia On Location: April 6, 2022 LONDON -- A security guard at the British Embassy in Berlin has been extradited from Germany and charged with spying for Russia, U.K. police said Wednesday. The Metropolitan Police force said David Ballantyne Smith, 57, was sent back to Britain on Wednesday. He faces nine charges under the Official Secrets Act related to “the collection and communication of information useful to the Russian state.” Smith is due to appear in a London court on Thursday, Police said the alleged offenses took place between October 2020 and August 2021, when Smith was arrested by German police at his home in Potsdam, southwest of Berlin. Nick Price, head of special crime and counterterrorism at Britain's Crown Prosecution Service, said Smith is accused of “seven offenses of collecting information with the intent of sending it to the Russian authorities, one of attempting communication and one of providing information to a person he believed was a member of the Russian authorities.” During the Cold War, Berlin was often dubbed “the capital of spies” because the city was on the frontlines of the confrontation between the Soviets in the East and the Americans and their western allies in the West. Espionage activities supposedly abated after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the end of the Cold War, but Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has once again chilled relations between Moscow and the West and put espionage back in the spotlight. On Monday, Germany expelled 40 Russian diplomats it accused of being spies.


Cluster 3 (Total Articles: 12):
Poland is calling on its European Union partners to impose sweeping sanctions on Russia’s oil and natural gas sectors over the war in Ukraine On Location: May 2, 2022 BRUSSELS -- Poland urged its European Union partners on Monday to unite and impose sweeping sanctions on Russia's oil and natural gas sectors over the war in Ukraine, and not to cave in to pressure to pay for their gas in Russian rubles. EU ministers are meeting in Brussels to discuss their response to Russia’s decision last week to cut gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland. Energy giant Gazprom says the two countries failed to pay their bills in April. “We will call for immediate sanctions on Russian oil and gas. This is the next, and urgent, and absolute step," Polish Climate and Environment Minister Anna Moskwa said. “We already have coal. Now it’s time for oil, and (the) second step is for gas. The best option is take them all together.” In a move last week branded in Europe as “blackmail,” Russian energy giant Gazprom cut supplies to Bulgaria and Poland. It came after Russian President Vladimir Putin said that “unfriendly” countries must start paying for gas in rubles, Russia’s currency. Bulgaria and Poland have refused to do so, like most EU countries. More Gazprom bills are due on May 20, and the bloc is wary that Russia might turn off more taps then. Russia rejects the claims of blackmail. The 27 nation EU imports around 40% of the gas it consumes from Russia. But some member countries, notably Hungary and Slovakia, are more heavily dependent on Russian supplies than others, and support for a gradual phasing in of an oil embargo is emerging. Germany believes it could cope if supplies of Russian oil were cut off by Moscow. Economy Minister Robert Habeck said that Russian oil now accounts for 12% of total imports, down from 35% before the war, and most of it goes to the Schwedt refinery near Berlin. “Germany is not against an oil ban from Russia. Of course it is a heavy load to bear, but we are ready to do that," Habeck told reporters. He said that a few more weeks or months to find oil transporting ships, and to better prepare harbors and pipelines would be useful. “Time is helpful but I think other countries have bigger problems, and as I have asked for solidarity or understanding of the German situation, I am also of course willing to understand the maybe more difficult situation for other countries," he said. The bulk of Monday's meeting is focused on shoring up gas supplies and not giving in to Putin's demand that companies pay for gas in rubles. Around 97% of European contracts have been concluded in euros or dollars. The EU's executive branch, the European Commission, has warned that companies ceding to pressure to convert euros to rubles through two accounts at Gazprombank would be in contravention of the bloc’s sanctions. “We shouldn’t support Gazprombank, we shouldn’t support the Russian economy. We are not obliged to follow Putin’s decree, to follow Putin’s law. We’ve got European law. We’ve got national law,” Moskwa said. She added that Poland's gas supplies are not at risk. The EU has hit Russian officials, oligarchs, banks, companies and other organizations with rafts of sanctions since Russian troops invaded Ukraine in February. The commission is working on a sixth round of measures, possibly including oil restrictions, and could announce them this week. The measures would have to be approved by the member countries, which could take several days. Despite the pressure, Europe does have some leverage in the dispute since it pays Russia $400 million a day for gas, a huge dent in Moscow's coffers should it opt for a complete cutoff. Off the Dutch North Sea coast, meanwhile, a fuel tanker stood idle at anchor after port workers in Amsterdam said they would not unload its cargo of Russian diesel. The Marshall Islands-flagged Sunny Liger was initially scheduled to unload in Sweden, but dockers there refused to carry out the work. Dutch port employees with the FNV dockers’ union say they also refused to unload the tanker out of solidarity with their Swedish colleagues. Union spokeswoman Asmae Hajjari told NOS Radio 1 over the weekend that “the ship is not welcome.” ——— Frank Jordans in Berlin and Mike Corder in The Hague contributed to this report. ——— Follow the AP’s coverage of the war at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine

Poland and Bulgaria  have accused Moscow of using natural gas to blackmail their countries On Location: April 27, 2022 WARSAW, Poland -- Polish and Bulgarian leaders accused Moscow of using natural gas to blackmail their countries after Russia's state-controlled energy company stopped supplying them with gas Wednesday. European Union leaders echoed those comments and were holding an emergency meeting on the Russian move. The gas cutoff to Poland and Bulgaria came after Russian President Vladimir Putin said that “unfriendly” countries would need to start paying for gas in rubles, Russia's currency, which Bulgaria and Poland refused to do. Russian energy giant Gazprom said in a statement that it hadn’t received any payments from Poland and Bulgaria since April 1 and was suspending their deliveries starting Wednesday. And if those countries siphon off Russian gas intended for other European customers, Gazprom said deliveries to Europe will be reduced by that amount. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the announcement by Gazprom “is yet another attempt by Russia to use gas as an instrument of blackmail.” Europe is not without some leverage in the dispute, since it pays Russia $400 million a day for gas, money Putin would lose with a complete cutoff. Russia, however, rejected the idea that it was using blackmail while warning it may halt gas supplies to other European customers if they also refuse to switch to paying in rubles. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, argued that the Russian demand to switch to paying for gas in rubles resulted from Western actions that froze Russian hard currency assets. He said those were effectively “stolen” by the West in an “unprecedented unfriendly action.” Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki told Poland's parliament that he thinks the suspension was revenge for new sanctions against Russia that Warsaw imposed over Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Morawiecki called it an “attack on Poland” and an example of “gas imperialism” while vowing that Poland would not be cowed by the cutoff. He said the country was safe from an energy crisis thanks to years of efforts to secure gas from other countries. “We will not succumb to Russia's gas blackmail,” he told lawmakers, to applause. He also sought to assure citizens that the gas cutoff would not affect Polish households. Some Poles and Bulgarians welcomed the cutoff for moving them closer to independence from Russian energy. "I don’t know what the results will be for regular citizens like myself,” said Nina Rudnicka, a lecturer at Poznan University. “But I believe that one should not bow to Russia’s blackmail. It was the right decision not to change to payment in rubles.” Dobrin Todorov, a resident of Sofia, the Bulgarian capital, said given a “choice between freedom and dignity or gas, the answer is clear, in favor of freedom and dignity." "So we will go through this ordeal. It cannot be compared to the hardship and tribulations that the Ukrainian people are currently suffering,” Todorov added. The new Polish sanctions against Russia, announced Tuesday, targeted 50 Russian oligarchs and companies, including Gazprom. Hours later, Poland said it had received notice that Gazprom was cutting off its gas supplies for failing to pay in Russian rubles. Poland’s gas company, PGNiG, said the gas supplies from the Yamal pipeline stopped early Wednesday. Russian gas supplies to both Poland and Bulgaria already were expected to end later this year anyway. Poland relies on coal for 70% of its energy needs, with gas only making up around 7% of its energy mix. Several years ago, the country opened its first terminal for liquefied natural gas, or LNG, in Swinoujscie, on the Baltic Sea coast. A pipeline from Norway is to due to start operating this year. Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, whose government has been cutting many of the country's old ties with Russia, called Gazprom’s suspension of gas deliveries “a gross violation of their contract” and “blackmail.” He vowed to defend the country's interests and “support military-technical assistance to Ukraine.” “Unfortunately, in the recent past we were treated as Russia’s fifth column. And there are many political and economic circles that protect Russia’s interests," he said. “We and our party will protect only Bulgarian interests.” In Bulgaria, the main consumers of gas are district heating companies. Bulgaria’s energy minister said his country can meet the needs of users for at least one month. “Alternative supplies are available, and Bulgaria hopes that alternative routes and supplies will also be secured at the EU level,” Energy Minister Alexander Nikolov said. Russia's move raised wider concerns that other countries could be targeted next as Western countries increase their support for Ukraine amid a war now in its third month. The Greek government held an emergency meeting Wednesday in Athens. Greece's next scheduled payment to Gazprom is due on May 25, and the government must decide whether it will comply with the demand to pay in rubles. Greece is ramping up its liquefied natural gas storage capacity, and has contingency plans to switch several industry sectors from gas to diesel as an emergency energy source. It has also reversed a program to reduce domestic coal production. “It appears there is some posturing by Gazprom,’’ said Gianna Bern a University of Notre Dame finance professor. “There are probably fewer consequences to turning off natural gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria than larger countries in Europe. Russia is definitely sending a message.” If European nations decide not to pay in rubles, Russia can sell its oil elsewhere, such as to India and China, because oil primarily moves by ship. It has less options with natural gas, because the pipeline network that carries gas from Russia’s huge deposits in northwestern Siberia’s Yamal Peninsula does not connect with pipelines that run to China. And Russia only has limited facilities to export super-chilled liquefied gas by ship. ——— Toshkov reported from Bulgaria. Monika Scislowska in Warsaw, Frank Jordans in Berlin, Jon Gambrell in Lviv, Ukraine, Lorne Cook in Brussels, Derek Gatopoulos in Athens and Fred Monyak in Washington contributed. ——— Follow AP's coverage of the war in Ukraine: https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine

The Group of Seven major economies have agreed to reject Moscow’s demand to pay for Russian natural gas exports in rubles Ukrainian forces mount huge counteroffensive against Russia BERLIN -- The Group of Seven major economies agreed Monday to reject Moscow’s demand to pay for Russian natural gas exports in rubles. German energy minister Robert Habeck told reporters that “all G-7 ministers agreed completely that this (would be) a one-sided and clear breach of the existing contracts” for natural gas, which is used to heat homes, generate electricity and power industry. The energy ministers of France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada, as well as the European Union energy commissioner, met by videoconference and reaffirmed that contracts “must be respected," with most stipulating payments be in euros or dollars, a G-7 statement said. “Payment in ruble is not acceptable, and we will urge the companies affected not to follow (Russian President Vladimir) Putin’s demand,” Habeck said. Putin announced last week that Russia will demand “unfriendly" countries pay for natural gas only in Russian currency from now on, instructing the central bank to work out a procedure for buyers to acquire rubles in Russia. The demand sent already high gas prices even higher amid fears it could be a prelude to a natural gas shutoff, which could disrupt Europe's economy and hurt Russia's finances. Economists said the move appeared designed to try to support the ruble, which has collapsed against other currencies since Putin invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24 and Western countries responded with far-reaching sanctions against Moscow. But some analysts expressed doubt that it would work. Asked by reporters earlier Monday if Russia could cut natural gas supplies to European customers if they reject the demand to pay in rubles, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in a conference call that “we clearly aren’t going to supply gas for free.” “In our situation, it’s hardly possible and feasible to engage in charity for Europe,” Peskov said. Asked what happens if Russia turns off the taps now, Germany’s energy minister said, “We are prepared for all scenarios.” “Putin’s demand to convert the contracts to ruble (means) he is standing with his back to the wall in that regard, otherwise he wouldn’t have made that demand,” Habeck said, adding that Russia needs rubles to finance its war at home, such as payments to troops. European governments have shied away from imposing a ban on energy imports from Russia over fears of the impact it would have on the economy. Europe gets 40% of its gas and 25% of its oil from Russia, and since the war, has scrambled to set out proposals to reduce its dependency. Russia is just as reliant on Europe, with oil and gas its dominant sector and paying for government. Estimates of the impact of a gas boycott or embargo on Europe vary but most involve a substantial loss of economic output, especially since the war and the resulting surge in energy and raw material prices is already weighing on Europe's economy. U.S. sanctions permit exceptions for payments for oil and gas, though it has banned Russian energy imports itself. Putin’s rubles payment proposal led Germany’s utilities association, the BDEW, to call on the government to declare an “early warning” of an energy emergency. A spokeswoman said Monday that the government does not see the need for an early warning declaration at this time. When pressed by reporters on making the declaration, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said “the contracts we know lay down the euro as payment currency and the companies will pay according to the contracts they have signed.” What currency is used to buy Russian energy “doesn't really matter," said Robin Brooks, chief economist at the Institute of International Finance, a trade group for the world’s banks. “What matters is that energy exports give Russia purchasing power, which it can convert into goods from abroad,” she said. Putin's demand for payment in rubles “is mostly window dressing. It doesn’t change the underlying transactions,’’ Brooks said. “At the margin, I would call this another ‘own goal’ by Putin, since it increases the focus on gas purchases by Western Europe and could potentially raise the odds of an import stop.” ——— AP Economics Writer Paul Wiseman contributed from Washington.


Cluster 9 (Total Articles: 13):
The trip was shrouded in secrecy -- until Ukraine's Zelenskyy announced it. Zelenskyy meets with US officials about war in Ukraine In the quiet weekend morning hours Saturday, two of President Joe Biden's top advisers boarded their flights -- the start of a long journey shrouded in secrecy. It was a secret -- until Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spilled just hours after they were wheels up. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin were coming to visit Kyiv, the war-time president announced. While the Biden administration refused to comment all weekend, it was a hiccup that could have derailed the secret visit, amid intense security concerns about sending two Cabinet officials to an active war zone. In the end, Blinken, Austin, and a small delegation arrived in Kyiv Sunday for a three-hour meeting with Zelenskyy, carrying with them a number of major announcements to make -- millions more in U.S. security assistance, increased U.S. training for Ukrainian troops, the return of U.S. diplomats to Ukraine, and after three years of vacancy, a nominee for a new U.S. ambassador. Senior State and Defense Department officials dismissed any concerns that Zelenskyy's announcement imperiled the trip: "We plan for any number of contingencies. ... It didn't change anything about our commitment to go there today and to share what we have to say," a senior State Department official told reporters Sunday. But the administration refused to confirm the trip took place until the early morning hours Monday -- only when the U.S. team returned across the border in Poland. "We don't know how the rest of this war will unfold, but we do know that a sovereign, independent Ukraine will be around a lot longer than Vladimir Putin is on the scene, and our support for Ukraine going forward will continue," Blinken told reporters Monday morning in Poland. The visit was the first by senior U.S. officials since Russia's invasion started 60 days ago -- "part symbolism but also very substantive," Blinken said as he sat across the table from Zelenskyy. That substance was in what he and Austin carried with them, including $165 million for Ukraine to purchase ammunition for its Soviet-era weaponry and $322 million for Ukraine to purchase from defense firms -- what's known as foreign military financing. In total, the Biden administration intends to obligate more than $713 million in foreign military financing for Ukraine and 15 other European countries, virtually all of whom have supported Ukraine's military from their own stockpiles. Blinken also announced Biden would formally nominate Bridget Brink, a career diplomat currently serving as U.S. ambassador to Slovakia, to serve as envoy in Kyiv. U.S. diplomats will eventually return to the capital too, Blinken said, as they start this week by making the journey across the border from Poland to Lviv on a daily basis. It's a journey Blinken and Austin now know personally. They arrived in southeastern Poland Saturday evening near the border with Ukraine -- riding the train to Kyiv in the opposite direction from the nearly three million Ukrainian refugees who've arrived in Poland. As passengers, they saw little of the war-torn country, according to a senior State Department official, who said shades on the windows blacked out much of the view. Once in the capital, no longer under Russian siege, Blinken said there were signs that normal life was returning. "We certainly saw people on the streets in Kyiv -- evidence of that fact that the battle for Kyiv was won, and there is what looks from the surface at least to be normal life," he told reporters afterwards. "But that's in stark contrast to what's going on in other parts of Ukraine -- in the south and the east -- where the Russian brutality is doing horrific things to people every single day." From the train, they traveled straight to the presidential palace for three hours of meetings with Zelenskyy and his team, according to a senior State Department official, including Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov, and Andriy Yermak, head of the Office of the President. "We had a really good, detailed, substantive, focused conversation for the better part of three hours that really went into every aspect of this campaign and next steps," the senior State Department official said. It was the first time senior U.S. officials had seen Zelenskyy since Russia invaded -- a chance to check in on the TV star, who won a surprising presidential election, and who's become a wartime leader and world figure. When a U.S. delegation visited Zelenskyy last May -- the first meeting between Biden officials and a Ukrainian president already bruised by American politics -- Zelenskyy was "constantly energized, moving from one thing to another," the senior State Department official said. "Now, there's a deliberateness and a kind of gravitas," they said, describing him as "very focused, very detail-oriented on different aspects of this, whether the security, the economic, the humanitarian, the sanctions. He went into real detail on each, but in a very deliberate way." Even physically, he "looked remarkably well," the official added. When the U.S. delegation asked about his family, Zelenskyy said they were doing ok, but "'the hard part is we just don't see each other. We miss each other,'" the official recounted him saying. "It was just a kind of human moment. Everyone in this thing is an individual with their own individual lives and family lives," they added. "He's going from being a TV celebrity to maybe the most recognized leader -- other than the president of the United States and Vladimir Putin -- in the world. He's borne that remarkably well." An in-person conversation makes working through any differences easier, officials said -- including Zelenskyy's push for the U.S. to designate Russia a state sponsor of terrorism. The designation, made by the State Department, carries the strictest U.S. sanctions, although Russia is already under many of them. Zelenskyy personally asked Biden to designate Russia during a phone call earlier this month, a U.S. official confirmed to ABC News. The designation is for governments that support terrorist groups, not ones that terrorize, per the senior State Department official, who said during their talks, they explained State Department lawyers are reviewing the possibility, "but it's a statute. It's a legal determination." "Look, the Russians are terrorizing the Ukrainians. But that's different than saying they meet the criteria of the SST [state sponsor of terrorism designation]." But if face-to-face interactions are that important, it begs the question why didn't Biden himself go. Another senior State Department official pointed to security concerns. "The president of the United States is somewhat singular in terms of what travel would require, so it goes well beyond what a cabinet secretary would - or what virtually any other world leader - would require."

The moves are a "prelude" to larger operations, a U.S. defense official said. Russia declares new phase of its ‘special operation’ underway The Pentagon has been providing daily updates on the U.S. assessment of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and Ukraine's efforts to resist. Here are highlights of what a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Tuesday on Day 55. 'Limited' Russian offensive operations so far in eastern Ukraine The U.S. has seen "limited" Russian offensive operations southwest of Donetsk and south of Izium, but these are believed to be "preludes to larger offensive operations that the Russians plan to conduct," a senior U.S. defense official said. "These are actual ground offensives, and they are being supported, of course, by some long-range fires, mostly artillery, which is right out of the Russian doctrine," the official said. But while there is ongoing fighting in the region, a more devastating offensive is still in the works. "You've seen comments by [Ukraine's] President Zelenskyy yesterday, and even for [Russian Foreign Minister] Lavrov, about this new offensive beginning ... We think that these ... are preludes to larger offensive operations that the Russians plan to conduct. So, we're not pushing back on the notion that offensive operations have begun, but again, we think that this is a prelude of larger offensive operations that are potentially still in the offing here," the official said. The Pentagon believes Russia's military is working to learn from its mistakes fighting in the north, where it was plagued with logistical and supply problems, conducting what officials call "shaping operations" to set favorable conditions on the battlefield before beginning its new offensive in earnest. "In other words, continue to reinforce, continue to make sure they have logistics and sustainment in place, continue to make sure that they have proper aviation and other enabling capability," the official said. Over the last 24 hours, two Russian battalion tactical groups (BTGs), or up to 2,000 more combat troops, have been sent into Ukraine, according to the official. This brings the total to an estimated 78 BTGs inside the country, all in the south and east. About 75% of Putin's total combat power originally arrayed against Ukraine remains, according to the official. This takes into account all military capabilities, including troop casualties, destroyed vehicles and aircraft, and expended missiles. This is the lowest assessment we've heard out of the Pentagon. Fall of Mariupol and Donbas 'not inevitable'  "People speak about this as if it's inevitable, that Mariupol is going to fall, that it's inevitable that Donbas will be taken by the Russians. We don't see it that way. And we're doing everything we can to make sure that it's not inevitable," the official said. With fighting concentrated around Donbas, Ukraine has to move aid coming in from the U.S. and others all the way across the country. "Right now we know from our discussions with the Ukrainians that they are getting this materiel, it's getting into the hands of their fighters," the official said. But Russia aims to isolate Ukrainian forces in the east. "Clearly what the Russians want to do is cut them off and to defeat them in the Donbas," the official said, reiterating that defeat is not inevitable. Ukraine has more operable planes than 2 weeks ago At a separate briefing later Tuesday, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said Ukraine currently has more operable military planes right now than it did two weeks ago because Ukraine has received additional aircraft as well as parts to get damaged planes flying again. Kirby was reticent to provide any details on where the parts and planes came from but stressed that they did not come from the U.S. "They have received additional aircraft and aircraft parts to help them get more aircraft in the air," Kirby said at the on-camera briefing at the Pentagon. “And that's not by accident, that's because other nations who had experience with those kinds of aircraft have been able to help them get more aircraft up and running,” said Kirby. "We certainly have helped with the trans-shipment of some additional spare parts that have helped with their aircraft needs, but we have not transported whole aircraft," he said. Russian missile strikes The U.S. assesses Russia has fired at least 1,670 missiles against Ukraine since the beginning of the invasion. The official noted that bad weather lowers visibility, making it harder for the U.S. to observe launches and other battlefield actions, so the actual number could be higher. Despite the recent airstrikes in Kyiv and Lviv, Russia's firepower is focused on Mariupol and Donbas.

Defense official said Russian troops are still focusing on eastern Ukraine. Ukraine claims its forces have ‘liberated’ key suburb around Kyiv The Pentagon has been providing daily updates on the Russian invasion of Ukraine and Ukraine's efforts to resist. Here are highlights of what a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Friday on Day 33: Ukraine retakes town south of Sumy The U.S. assesses that Ukrainian forces retook the town of Trostyanets, south of Sumy, in northeast Ukraine, from Russian forces. "They continue to make progress in that regard," said the official, who could not confirm reports of other areas having been retaken by the Ukrainians as was reported by Ukraine this weekend. The official added that Russian forces remain around in a defensive posture, "and the Ukrainians are continuing to try to take back ground," which they've seen in the south and north. Last Friday, the official said Russian troops north of Kyiv had moved into defensive positions around the city and were putting a priority on operations in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine. The official said Monday that Russian troops around Kyiv have stopped making advances towards the city, though they continue using long-range fires. Russian troops remain 15-20 miles north/northwest of the city and about 35 miles east. Russia has now fired more than 1,370 missiles into Ukraine. "Static situation on the ground there, except for the fact that we continue to see Ukrainians defend the city and try to to push Russians back as well," said the official. The southern strategic city of Kherson remains "contested territory," said the official. On Friday, the official said Kherson, which was seized by Russia early in the fighting, was no longer under full control of Russian forces. Russia prioritizing the Donbas, but US not sure why The official said Russian forces appear to have prioritized operations in eastern Ukraine. The official described Russian forces moving southeast from Izyum as making "incremental progress" towards Donbas. "We're not exactly sure what's behind this reprioritization. All I can tell you is what we're seeing," said the official. The U.S. believes it could be to attempt to cut off Ukrainian troops in the east from the rest of the country, to gain leverage for future peace talks or to refocus their strategic goals. Heavy fighting and shelling continues in Mariupol  "The Ukrainians are slugging it out in Mariupol and they are keeping the Russians at bay there so far," said the official. Russian troops entered the southern port city after pounding with artillery and long-range missiles, apparently destroying entire sections of the city. "We continue to see Mariupol getting slammed by long-range fires," the official said. "We are certainly aware of reports that inside Mariupol the Ukrainians are not only fighting very, very hard, but that they are experiencing their own challenges because you're surrounded," the official added. "It is under incredible pressure by the Russians, but the Ukrainians continue to defend it."  US troop extensions in eastern Europe?  A major decision of last week's NATO leaders summit in Brussels was that the alliance would establish a long-term presence in eastern Europe as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. This includes an additional 6,000 American ground forces moved into eastern Europe to reassure NATO countries that border Russia ahead of that invasion. Now, there are questions about if they will remain there longer than what has been described by the Pentagon as a temporary deployment. The official noted that when Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin ordered additional troops to Europe in recent months, "We made it clear at the time that they will be there for as long as we believe they were necessary to be there, and the secretary continues to believe that they're necessary." The official characterized them as temporary deployments and said Austin is constantly discussing U.S. troop posture with Gen. Tod Wolters, the commander of U.S. European Command and the top commander of NATO forces, and Gen. Mark Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. "Those troops are still there and the secretary assesses that they need to stay there, and so I have no announcements or changes to that posture except for those six Growlers that we talked about this morning and as we as we can talk about, we certainly will," said the official. On Monday, the Pentagon announced that six U.S. Navy EA-18 Growler aircraft capable of jamming radars with electronic warfare equipment were being deployed to Germany to reinforce NATO's eastern flank and to deter Russia. "They are not being deployed to be used against Russian forces in Ukraine," Pentagon spokesman John Kirby stressed in making the announcement. "They are being deployed completely in keeping with our efforts to bolster NATO's deterrence and defense capabilities along that Eastern flank. They are not being sent because of some sort of acute threat that was perceived or some specific incident that happened." "This is in order to bolster readiness, enhance NATO's collective defense posture and further increase air integration capabilities with our allied and partner nations," Kirby said.


Cluster 1 (Total Articles: 36):
"You are fighting for the motherland," the Russian leader told his troops. Putin's Victory Day show of force LONDON -- During a military parade in Moscow on Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin addressed his troops fighting in neighboring Ukraine, but offered little insight into his next steps. "You are fighting for the motherland, for its future, so that no one forgets the lessons of the Second World War," Putin said in a patriotic speech for Victory Day, a national holiday in Russia commemorating the Soviet Union's defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II. Columns of Russian soldiers marched through Moscow's Red Square, alongside tanks and other military vehicles boasting huge intercontinental ballistic missiles. "Now here, on the Red Square, soldiers and officers from many regions of our vast homeland stand shoulder to shoulder, including those who came directly from Donbas, directly from the combat zone," Putin said. Putin launched a "special military operation" into Ukraine on Feb. 24, with Russian forces invading from Belarus, to the north, and Russia, to the east. They quickly reached the outskirts of Kyiv, but ultimately failed to seize the Ukrainian capital and other major cities in the north. Russian forces were met with strong resistance from Ukrainian troops, despite weeks of relentless bombardment that decimated entire neighborhoods and claimed civilian lives. The Russian military announced on March 29 it would scale down activities in the north around Kyiv and Chernihiv and instead focus its efforts on the "liberation" of the disputed Donbas region in the east, which is home to a mostly Russian-speaking population. Russia-backed separatist forces have controlled two breakaway republics of eastern Ukraine's Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts in Donbas since 2014, following Russia's annexation of Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula. On April 18, the Russian military began a full-scale ground offensive in Donbas in an attempt to capture the strategic port city of Mariupol and to secure a coastal corridor to Crimea. Although he showed no signs of backing down, Putin on Monday did not make any declarations of war, peace or victory during his remarks at the Victory Day parade. He drew parallels between Soviet soldiers battling Nazi troops and the Russian forces fighting now in Ukraine, as he has vowed to "de-Nazify" the former Soviet republic. He also spoke of Donbas as if it was already part of Russia. "These days, you are fighting for our people in the Donbas. For the security of our homeland, Russia," he said. "You are defending what fathers and grandfathers, great-grandfathers fought for." Putin accused Ukraine of seeking to attain nuclear weapons and planning a "punitive operation in the Donbas, for an invasion of our historical lands, including Crimea." He also laid blame on the West for refusing to have "an honest dialogue" about Russia's demands for formal guarantees that Ukraine will never join NATO and that the alliance will pull back its forces from countries in eastern Europe that joined after the Cold War. "Thus, an absolutely unacceptable threat was systematically created for us and directly at our borders," Putin added. "The danger was growing everyday." The Russian leader claimed that attacking Ukraine "was a forced, timely and only right decision -- the decision of a sovereign, strong, independent country." "Russia has given a preemptive rebuff to aggression," he said. Just hours before Putin's remarks, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy released a video message marking the 1945 victory over the Nazis, telling his country that "very soon there will be two Victory Days in Ukraine." "Today, we celebrate the Day of Victory over Nazism. And we will not give anyone a single piece of our history," Zelenskyy said. "We are proud of our ancestors who, together with other nations in the anti-Hitler coalition, defeated Nazism. And we will not allow anyone to annex this victory, we will not allow it to be appropriated." "On the Day of Victory over Nazism, we are fighting for a new victory," he added. "The road to it is difficult, but we have no doubt that we will win."

More than 900 bodies of civilians were discovered in the Kyiv region following the withdrawal of Russian forces KYIV, Ukraine -- More than 900 civilian bodies have been discovered in the region surrounding the Ukrainian capital following the withdrawal of Russian forces — most of them fatally shot, police said Friday, an indication that many people were "simply executed.” The jarring numbers emerged shortly after Russia’s Defense Ministry promised to step up missile attacks on Kyiv in response to Ukraine’s alleged aggression on Russian territory. That ominous warning followed the stunning loss of Moscow's flagship in the Black Sea, which a senior U.S. defense official said Friday was indeed hit by at least one Ukrainian missile. Around Kyiv, Andriy Nebytov, the head of Kyiv’s regional police force, said bodies were abandoned in the streets or given temporary burials. He cited police data indicating that 95% died from gunshot wounds. “Consequently, we understand that under the (Russian) occupation, people were simply executed in the streets,” Nebytov said. More bodies are being found every day, under rubble and in mass graves, he added. The largest number of victims were found in Bucha, where there were more than 350, he said. According to Nebytov, utilities workers in Bucha gathered and buried bodies in the Kyiv suburb while it remained under Russian control. Russian troops, he added, were “tracking down” people who expressed strong pro-Ukrainian views. More damage could be on the way for Kyiv after Russian authorities accused Ukraine of wounding seven people and damaging about 100 residential buildings with airstrikes in Bryansk, a region bordering Ukraine. Authorities in another border region of Russia also reported Ukrainian shelling Thursday. “The number and the scale of missile attacks on objects in Kyiv will be ramped up in response to the Kyiv nationalist regime committing any terrorist attacks or diversions on the Russian territory,” Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said. In Kyiv, a renewed bombardment could mean a return to the steady wail of air raid sirens heard during the early days of the invasion and to fearful nights sheltering in subway stations. Tentative signs of pre-war life have resurfaced in the capital after Russian troops failed to capture the city and retreated to concentrate on eastern Ukraine, leaving behind evidence of possible war crimes. Ukrainian officials have not confirmed striking targets in Russia, and the reports could not be independently verified. However, Ukrainian officials said their forces did strike a key Russian warship with missiles. And after more than a day of the Pentagon saying it could not confirm the claim, a senior U.S. defense official said it now believes the Moskva was hit Wednesday by at least one, and probably two, missiles, creating the large fire aboard. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss an intelligence assessment. The guided-missile cruiser Moskva, named for the Russian capital, then sank while being towed to port Thursday after suffering heavy damage. Though Moscow did not acknowledge any attack, the loss of the ship represents an important victory for Ukraine and a symbolic defeat for Russia. The Moskva had the capacity to carry 16 long-range cruise missiles. The last time a warship as large as the Moskva sank in combat was 1982. A British submarine torpedoed an Argentine navy cruiser called the ARA General Belgrano during the Falklands War, killing over 300 sailors. The sinking of the Russian warship reduces Russia’s firepower in the Black Sea, although military analysts disagreed on the event's significance to the course of the war. Either way, the loss was viewed as emblematic of Moscow's fortunes in a seven-week invasion widely seen as a historic blunder following the retreat from the Kyiv region and much of northern Ukraine. “A ‘flagship’ russian warship is a worthy diving site. We have one more diving spot in the Black Sea now. Will definitely visit the wreck after our victory in the war,” Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov tweeted Friday in a boast. In his nightly address Thursday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told Ukrainians they should be proud of having survived 50 days under Russian attack when the invaders “gave us a maximum of five.” Russia's warning of renewed airstrikes did not stop Kyiv residents from taking advantage of a sunny and slightly warmer spring day as the weekend approached. More people than usual were out on the streets Friday, walking dogs, riding electric scooters and strolling hand in hand. In one central park, a small group of people including a woman draped in a Ukrainian flag danced to the music of a portable speaker. Residents reported hearing explosions in parts of Kyiv overnight, but it was not clear what sites were targeted. News about the Moskva overshadowed Russian claims of advances in the southern port city of Mariupol, which Moscow's forces have blockaded since the early days of the invasion. Dwindling numbers of Ukrainian defenders have held out against a siege that has come at a horrific cost to trapped and starving civilians. Mariupol’s mayor said this week that more than 10,000 civilians had died and the death toll could surpass 20,000. Other Ukrainian officials have said they expect to find evidence in Mariupol of atrocities against civilians like the ones discovered in Bucha and other towns outside Kyiv. The Mariupol City Council said Friday that locals reported seeing Russian troops digging up bodies that were buried in residential courtyards and not allowing new burials “of people killed by them.” "Why the exhumation is being carried out and where the bodies will be taken is unknown,” the council said on the Telegram messaging app. Mariupol’s capture would allow Russian forces in the south, which came up through the annexed Crimean Peninsula, to fully link up with troops in the Donbas region, Ukraine’s eastern industrial heartland and the target of the looming offensive. Moscow-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian forces in the Donbas since 2014, the same year Russia seized Crimea from Ukraine. Russia has recognized the independence of two rebel-held areas of the region. Although it's not certain when Russia will launch the full-scale campaign, a regional Ukrainian official said Friday that seven people died and 27 were injured after Russian forces opened fire on buses carrying civilians in the village of Borovaya, near the northeastern city of Kharkiv. The claim could not be independently verified. Dmytro Chubenko, a spokesman for the regional prosecutor’s office, told Ukraine’s Suspilne news website, that Ukrainian authorities had opened criminal proceedings in connection with a suspected “violation of the laws and customs of war, combined with premeditated murder.” A large explosion also struck the eastern city of Kramatorsk, where a missile strike on a train station a week earlier killed more than 50 people as thousands heeding warnings to evacuate the Donbas area waited to leave. Associated Press journalists in Kramatorsk heard the sound of a rocket or missile and then the blast, followed by sirens wailing Friday. It was not immediately clear what was hit or whether there were casualties. A day earlier, a factory in the same city was hit by an airstrike. The Russian Defense Ministry said Friday that Russian strikes in the Kharkiv region “liquidated a squad of mercenaries from a Polish private military company” of up to 30 people and “liberated” an iron and steel factor in Mariupol. The claims could not be independently verified. On Thursday, the Defense Ministry explained the damage to the Moskva by saying that a fire had caused ammunition on board to detonate. Apart from the cruise missiles, the Moskva also carried air-defense missiles and other guns. The ministry did not say what might have caused the blaze but reported that the crew, which usually numbers about 500, abandoned the vessel. It was not clear if there were any casualties. Maksym Marchenko, governor of Ukraine's Black Sea region of Odesa, said Ukrainian forces struck the Moskva with two Neptune missiles and caused “serious damage.” The Neptune is an anti-ship missile recently developed by Ukraine based on an earlier Soviet design. ——— Fisch reported from Kramatorsk. Associated Press journalists around the world contributed to this report. Follow the AP’s coverage of the war at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine

Ukraine’s leader has accused Russia of trying to humiliate the United Nations by raining missiles on Kyiv during a visit by Secretary-General Antonio Guterres President Biden gives remarks on the war in Ukraine  KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukraine’s leader accused Russia of trying to humiliate the United Nations by raining missiles on Kyiv during a visit by Secretary-General António Guterres, an attack that shattered the capital's tentative return to normality as the focus of the war moved east. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukraine’s forces were holding off Russia's attempted advance in the south and east, as efforts continued to secure safe passage for residents trapped in Mariupol, which has been largely reduced to rubble in a 2-month-long siege. Russia pounded targets all over Ukraine on Thursday, including the attack on Kyiv that struck a residential high-rise and another building. U.S.-funded broadcaster Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty said its journalist Vira Hyrych, who lives in one of the buildings hit, died. Her body was found in the rubble on Friday. Ten people were wounded in the attack, including at least one who lost a leg, according to Ukraine's emergency services. In an apparent reference to the same strike, Russia’s Defense Ministry said Friday that it had destroyed “production buildings” at the Artem defense factory in Kyiv. The attack on Kyiv came barely an hour after Zelenskyy held a news conference with Guterres, who toured some of the destruction in and around Kyiv and condemned attacks on civilians during his visit. “This says a lot about Russia’s true attitude towards global institutions, about attempts of Russian authorities to humiliate the U.N. and everything that the organization represents,” Zelenskyy said in an overnight video address to the nation. "Therefore, it requires corresponding powerful reaction.” Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko derided the attack as equivalent to Russian President Vladimir Putin showing Guterres “his middle finger.” The strikes were the boldest Russian bombardment of the capital since Moscow’s forces retreated weeks ago following their failure to take the city in what they hoped would be a lightning offensive. Instead, stiff Ukrainian resistance, bolstered by Western arms, stalled Putin's advance and forced his troops to pull back to regroup. Some have now started to push into the country's eastern industrial heartland of the Donbas, which Moscow now says is its focus. Getting a full picture of the unfolding battle in the east has been difficult because airstrikes and artillery barrages have made it extremely dangerous for reporters to move around. Both Ukraine and the Moscow-backed rebels fighting in the east also have introduced tight restrictions on reporting from the combat zone. But so far, Russia’s troops and the separatist forces appear to have made only minor gains, and Britain’s Defense Ministry said Friday that those have been achieved at significant cost to Russia's forces. One aim of Guterres' visit was to secure the evacuation of people from the ruined southern port city of Mariupol, including a shattered steelworks where Ukrainian defenders are holed up and hundreds of civilians are also sheltering, Previous evacuation attempts have collapsed. “I cannot confirm the exact details of the operation to make sure it is done with safety for our people and for civilians stranded in Mariupol” said Saviano Abreu, a spokesperson for the U.N.’s humanitarian office. An official in Zelenskyy’s office said negotiations were underway with U.N. mediation, and did not rule out an evacuation of the plant happening Friday. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the media. Mariupol has seen some of the most dramatic suffering of the war. Under siege since the early days of the invasion, many of its residents became trapped with scarce access to food, water, medicine or electricity. An estimated 100,000 people are believed to still be in the city, and the city council warned Thursday that a lack of safe drinking water or a working sewer system could lead to outbreaks of deadly diseases such as cholera and dysentery. It added that bodies lay decaying under the rubble. Russian forces largely control the city, but some 2,000 Ukrainian fighters are holed up at the steel plant, the last known pocket of resistance. About 1,000 civilians are with them, and the fighters said recent concentrated bombings killed and wounded people. Video posted online by Ukraine’s Azov Regiment inside the steel plant showed people combing through the rubble to remove the dead and help the wounded. The regiment said the Russians hit an improvised underground hospital and its operating room, killing an unspecified number of people. The video couldn’t be independently verified. Russia’s invasion of its neighbor on Feb. 24 upended the post-Cold War security order. Putin, long irked by NATO’s expansion to eastern Europe, says the operation seeks the “demilitarization” of Ukraine, aims to protect people in the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas and ensure Russia’s own security. One of Moscow's demands has been that Ukraine drop its bid to join the western NATO alliance. Ukraine and the West say it was an unprovoked and illegal invasion launched to topple the government in Kyiv. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba wrote Friday on Twitter that a “security vacuum” had led to the war. “We have then been knocking on NATO’s door, but it never opened,” he wrote. “The world owes Ukraine security, and we ask states to decide which security guarantees they are ready to provide.” A day after Russia pounded a wide area of Ukraine, the governor of Ukraine’s central Dnipropetrovsk region, Valentyn Reznichenko, said two towns there were hit by Russian Grad rockets on Friday. There was no immediate word on casualties or damage. Separately, the governor of Russia’s Kursk region, Roman Starovoit, said that a border post came under mortar fire from Ukraine and that Russian border forces returned fire. He said there were no casualties on the Russian side. Thursday's explosions in northwestern Kyiv’s Shevchenkivsky district shook the city and flames poured out the windows of the residential high-rise and another building. The capital had been relatively unscathed in recent weeks, and cafes and other businesses have started to reopen, while a growing numbers of people have been out and about, enjoying the spring weather. The terrible human cost of the war, which has driven more than 11 million Ukrainians from their homes, continues to climb. In Lyman, a town in Donetsk where Russian forces are reportedly trying to advance as part of their Donbas push, shells rained on Tatiana Maksagory’s home this week, devastating her family. Maksagory’s 14-year-old grandson, Igor, was declared dead after emergency services drove him to the hospital. Her daughter was in serious condition and her son-in-law was also killed. “Grandma, will I live?“ she said Igor asked her when they were in the basement waiting for help. “I said that he would live. But look what happened, I betrayed him.” ——— This story has been updated to correct that Thursday’s strike on Kyiv was the boldest attack since Moscow’s retreat, not necessarily the first. ——— Associated Press journalists Jon Gambrell and Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Mstyslav Chernov in Kharkiv, Yesica Fisch in Sloviansk, and AP staff around the world contributed to this report. ——— Follow AP’s coverage of the war in Ukraine: https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine


Cluster 0 (Total Articles: 13):
The projected increases come after weeks of steady upticks in infections. NYC raises COVID-19 risk alert level For the first time in months, daily hospital admission levels and new COVID-19 related deaths in the United States are both projected to increase over the next four weeks, according to updated forecast models used by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The projected increases come after weeks of steady upticks in infections across the country, subsequent to the removal of masking requirements and mitigation measures in many states and cities. The forecast now predicts that approximately 5,000 deaths will occur over the next two weeks, with Ohio, New York, and New Jersey projected to see the largest totals of daily deaths in the weeks to come. “We are still in the middle of a pandemic, to be sure—there’s no confusion about that,” Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, told Foreign Policy last week. The forecast models show that 42 states and territories in hospital admissions across the country, including New York, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Florida, are projected to see increases in the next two weeks. Nationally, a growing number of COVID-19 positive patients have already been admitted to hospitals, requiring care, federal data shows. Since late last month, daily hospital admission totals have been slowly increasing, particularly in the Northeast, according to CDC data. And in the last week, admissions have jumped by 20%, with emergency department visits also up by 18%. On average, more than 2,200 virus-positive Americans are entering the hospital each day -- a total that has increased by 20% in the last week, the CDC reports. This also marks the highest number of patients requiring care since mid-March. Overall, there are about 18,300 patients with confirmed cases of COVID-19 in hospitals across the country, up by 18% in the last two weeks, the Department of Health and Human Services reports. Although totals remain significantly lower than during other parts of the pandemic, admission levels are now on the rise in every region of the country. Nationally, new infection rates have reached their highest point in nearly two months. More than 60,000 new cases are being officially reported each day, up by 27% in the last week, according to the CDC. In the Northeast and New York-New Jersey region, infection rates have risen by 64.8% and 54.8% respectively, over the last two weeks. Since last summer, dozens of states have moved to shutter public testing sites, with more at-home COVID-19 tests now available. Most Americans are not reporting their results to officials, and thus, experts say infection totals are likely significantly undercounted. Health experts say a confluence of factors is likely driving the nation’s latest viral resurgence, including the easing of masking requirements and other COVID-19 restrictions as well as highly contagious omicron subvariants, which have been estimated to be between 30% and 80% more transmissible than the original omicron strain. The BA.2 subvariant, BA.2.12.1, first discovered domestically last month, in New York state, continues to steadily increase in the U.S., newly released federal data shows. The subvariant now accounts for 36.5% of new COVID-19 cases nationwide, while in the New York — New Jersey area, it accounts for the majority — nearly 62% — of new cases. With vaccine immunity waning and the presence of variants of concern growing, health officials continue to urge the public to get vaccinated and boosted to prevent the risk of severe disease and hospitalization. “We hope that we don’t see a major uptick [in cases] as we get into the fall, but that remains to be seen. We’re going to have to wait and see, which is the reason why we’re still encouraging people to get vaccinated,” Fauci said last week. “If you’ve not been vaccinated or if you have been vaccinated and are eligible for a booster, make sure to get it now.”

A British court has ruled that the Conservative government acted illegally when it discharged hospital patients into nursing homes without testing them for COVID-19 or isolating them On Location: April 27, 2022 LONDON -- A British court ruled Wednesday that the Conservative government acted illegally when it discharged hospital patients into nursing homes without testing them for COVID-19 or isolating them — a policy that led to thousands of deaths early in the pandemic. Two High Court judges said the policy in March and April 2020 was unlawful because it failed to take into account the infection risk that non-symptomatic carriers of the virus posed to older or vulnerable people. The judges said U.K. officials did not take into account the “growing awareness” that the virus could be spread by people who had no symptoms, which had been identified as a risk as far back as late January 2020. They said the U.K. government should have advised that discharged hospital patients be kept separate from other nursing home residents for 14 days — something that didn't happen in the first weeks of the country's outbreak. Around 20,000 people died with the virus in British nursing homes during the initial months of the country’s first outbreak in 2020. The ruling came in response to a lawsuit by two women whose fathers died when the virus swept through the homes where they lived. Their lawyers said the decision — which allowed COVID-19 to spread among the elderly and vulnerable — was “one of the most egregious and devastating policy failures in the modern era.” The judges backed some parts of the lawsuit's arguments but rejected claims made under human rights legislation and against the National Health Service. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the government would study the ruling and respond “in due course.” He said officials had to make difficult decisions at an “incredibly difficult time” when “we didn’t know very much about the disease.” “The thing we didn’t know in particular was that COVID could be transmitted asymptomatically in the way that it was, and that was something that I wish we had known more about at the time,” Johnson said in the House of Commons. “Of course, I want to renew my apologies and sympathies for all those who lost loved ones during the pandemic, people who lost loved ones in care homes," he added. Like many countries, the U.K. had little capacity to test for coronavirus when the pandemic began, and many asymptomatic patients were quickly released from hospitals back into care homes, where COVID-19 soon ran riot. The health secretary at the time, Matt Hancock, has said the government did all it could to keep people safe during the biggest public health crisis in decades. Hancock’s office said in a statement that the court ruling cleared him of wrongdoing and found he "acted reasonably on all counts.” It said Hancock — who quit the government last year for breaching pandemic social-distancing rules by having an affair while living with his wife — wished health officials had told him sooner all they knew about asymptomatic transmission. Claimant Cathy Gardner, whose father died in April 2020, said “my father and other residents of care homes were neglected and let down by the government.” “Matt Hancock’s claim that the government threw a protective ring round care homes in the first wave of the pandemic was nothing more than a despicable lie of which he ought to be ashamed and for which he ought to apologize,” Gardner said. Johnson has set up an independent public inquiry into Britain’s handling of the pandemic, though it has yet to begin. More than 174,000 people have died in Britain after testing positive for the virus, the highest toll in Europe after Russia. Helen Wildbore, director of the Relatives and Residents Association charity, said the ruling “confirms what people living in care and their families have known all along – the protective ring was non-existent.” “The ruling is very welcome as a first step to justice but bereaved families will be left asking why more wasn’t done to protect their loved ones and how many lives could have been saved," she said. ——— Follow all AP stories on the pandemic at https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-pandemic.

Florida and 20 other states have sued to halt the federal government's pandemic requirement that people wear masks on planes, trains and other public transport FDA expected to authorize additional booster for adults 50 and older  ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -- Twenty-one states with Republican attorneys general sued Tuesday to halt the federal government’s requirement that people wear masks on planes, trains, ferries and other public transportation amid the coronavirus pandemic. The lawsuit, announced by Florida’s Gov. Ron DeSantis and Attorney General Ashley Moody and filed in federal court in Tampa, Florida, contends that the mask mandate exceeds the authority of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The mandate in its current form may be in effect only a few weeks more. The CDC recently extended it until April 18 while also indicating it is weighing scaling back the rules for a more targeted approach. Still, Florida and the other states are pressing on with the lawsuit, which comes amid a partisan divide over the response to the COVID-19 pandemic and issues of government control versus individual rights. “It is well past time to get rid of this unnecessary mandate and get back to normal life,” said DeSantis, a Republican who has persistently challenged federal mask mandates including those involving cruise lines, schools, private businesses and other entities. The CDC rule, effective Feb. 1, 2021, requires “the wearing of masks by people on public transportation conveyances or on the premises of transportation hubs,” according to the agency website. The rule has been relaxed somewhat, to end requirements for certain buses, but was recently extended until at least April 18 for domestic and international travel in general. Moody, a Republican and former Tampa judge, said in a news release that the travel mask mandates “are frustrating travelers and causing chaos on public transportation.” That appeared to be a reference to a spate of well-publicized confrontations between flight attendants and passengers over the mask requirement on commercial aircraft. It’s not clear if these incidents are isolated or widespread, and if masks are the only issue. Some are clearly alcohol-related or a mental health problem. Also, perhaps underscoring the partisan divide on masks, both DeSantis and Moody mentioned Democratic President Joe Biden several times in their statements against the travel mandate. The Atlanta-based CDC did not immediately respond to a phone call and email requesting comment on the lawsuit. The lawsuit seeks to immediately halt the CDC travel mask rule and asks for costs and attorneys' fees. There have been similar lawsuits filed in individual states before this latest one. Besides Florida, the states filing the new travel mask lawsuit as of Tuesday were: — Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Utah, Virginia, and West Virginia.


Cluster 5 (Total Articles: 12):
The investigation was spurred by the death of George Floyd in May 2020. Investigation finds Minneapolis police engaged in racial discrimination Following an almost two-year investigation, the Minnesota Department of Human Rights found that the city of Minneapolis and the Minneapolis Police Department engaged in a pattern or practice of race discrimination in violation of the Minnesota Human Rights Act. The human rights agency said Wednesday it will work with the city to develop a consent decree -- "a court-enforceable agreement that identifies specific changes to be made and timelines for those changes to occur." The investigation found racial disparities in how "MPD officers use force, stop, search, arrest, and cite people of color; in MPD officers' use of covert social media to surveil Black individuals and Black organizations, unrelated to criminal activity; MPD officers' consistent use of racist, misogynistic, and disrespectful language." These conclusions were made after investigators sat through hundreds of hours of camera footage, official interviews with officers, experts and witnesses, and read through thousands of pages in documents and materials. The Department of Human Rights said it will meet with community members, MPD officers, city officials and others to get feedback in preparation for the consent decree to address racial discrimination in policing in the city. The investigation is aimed at determining whether MPD engages in a pattern or practice of racial discrimination in violation of the Minnesota Human Rights Act, the state's civil rights law. The human rights department filing came shortly after the murder of George Floyd on May 25, 2020, by then-Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin. Chauvin was convicted of the killing April 20, 2021. "Community leaders have been asking for structural change for decades," Commissioner Rebecca Lucero said in June 2020 during the department's announcement. "They have fought for this and it is essential that we acknowledge the work and the commitment of those who have paved the path to make today's announcement possible." Attorney Ben Crump and co-counsels Antonio Romanucci and Jeff Storms, the legal team that represents Floyd's family, called the findings "historic." "We hope this leads to placing the city and the police department under a state-ordered consent decree, which would give us assurance, at last, that real change in policing is possible, and Minneapolis can become a safer city for its Black residents," they said in a statement. It continued, "We call on city, state, and Police leaders to accept the challenge of these findings and make meaningful change at last to create trust between communities of color in Minneapolis and those who are sworn to protect and serve them." U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland and the Justice Department also opened a pattern or practice investigation into the city of Minneapolis and the Minneapolis Police Department in 2021. That investigation is still ongoing. The Department of Human Rights obtained a temporary court order from Hennepin County District Court in June 2020 that forced the city of Minneapolis and the Minneapolis Police Department to implement immediate policy changes. MPD was required to ban chokeholds, officers were required to report or intervene in unauthorized use of force by other officers, get police chief approval on crowd control weapon use and more. Since the start of the human rights investigation, groups like the Minnesota Justice Center, the Policing Project at NYU Law and the Minneapolis Foundation have offered recommendations for MPD in independent reviews on the department.

An officer responded to a noise complaint at the home prior to the shooting.  Neighbor recalls deadly Airbnb shooting As the investigation to identify suspects entered its fourth day in a mass shooting at a Pittsburgh Airbnb house that left two teenagers dead, police amended the number of gunshot survivors from eight to nine. The Pittsburgh Police Department said in a statement that the new non-fatal gunshot victim was taken to a hospital in a private car and arrived at an emergency room on the morning of the shooting in stable condition. Pittsburgh Police Chief Scott Schubert said another five people suffered cuts and broken bones fleeing the gunfire, some by jumping from second-story windows. No arrests have been announced in the shooting that occurred early Sunday morning during a party at an Airbnb rental in the East Allegheny neighborhood of North Pittsburgh that police said was attended by more than 200 people. Schubert said Tuesday that about two hours before the shooting erupted, a police officer responded to a noise complaint at the Airbnb house, but left after issuing a verbal warning to keep the noise down. "There was nothing unusual to indicate that something was wrong," Schubert said. "We have some information that shows that a lot of these people didn’t come until after midnight." The shooting erupted around 12:40 a.m. Sunday, and investigators collected 90 shell casings from the scene, including 50 from inside the Airbnb home. Schubert said the shooting broke out after an "altercation" inside the house, but has declined to elaborate. The Allegheny County Medical Examiner's Office identified the two 17-year-olds killed in the shooting as Mathew Steffy-Ross and Jaiden Brown. Both teens were scheduled to graduate from high school in June, according to friends and loved ones. "Matthew was a fun, loving kid that cared so much about everybody. Matthew would give you the shirt off your back," Steffy-Ross' great-aunt, Bonnie McLain, told ABC affiliate station WTAE in Pittsburgh. She described Steffy-Ross, a senior at Grace Non-Traditional Christian Academy in Pittsburgh, as having "the biggest smile in the world." "He cared about people and he loved people, and he acted upon it," McLain said, adding that she last spoke to her nephew on Saturday morning and heard of his death from a neighbor on Sunday. Pittsburgh community activist Lee Davis of the Greater Valley Coalition Against Violence told WTAE that he was a mentor to both Steffy-Ross and Brown. "I have been to over 100 funerals in the 17 years I have been doing this work, and I thought I was all cried out, but when I seen what happened to Jaiden and Matt, the tears just came all over again," Davis said. "It just hurt my heart." Davis said he knew Brown, a senior at Woodland Hills High School in Pittsburgh, since he was a child. “His energy was great," Davis said of Brown. "Everybody loved him, and he became very well-liked in the community. To see this happen to him was really heartbreaking ... because he had a very bright future." Cathy Jo Welsh, a member of the youth anti-violence program Helping Out Our People in Pittsburgh, said Brown's father died from an illness a few years and that Steffy-Brown's mother died recently. "(Steffy-Brown) was just getting his bearings from losing his own mother and just learning how to live with trauma and grief," Welsh told WTAE.

The shooting occurred just blocks from the state Capitol building.  At least 16 shot in Sacramento mass shooting  At least 18 people were injured, six fatally, when a mass shooting erupted early Sunday in downtown Sacramento, California, and police said no suspects were in custody. The Sacramento Police Department said several streets in downtown Sacramento just blocks from the state Capitol building and the Golden 1 Center where the Kings NBA team plays were closed as officers responded to the gun violence. The conditions of the victims were not immediately known, police said. Three of the deceased are men, and three are women, Sacramento Police Chief Kathy Lester said during a press conference Sunday afternoon. A fight took place just before the shootings, and there were multiple shooters, Lester said, adding that is not currently known whether the shooters were a part of the same party or were unknown to each other. Investigators are interviewing several witnesses and sifting through hundreds of pieces of evidence, Lester said. The shooting came just several hours after one person was killed and 10 people were injured when gunfire erupted at an outdoor concert in Dallas, Texas. The Sacramento shooting broke out about 2 a.m. near the corner of 10th and K Street in a popular nightlife area, Sacramento Police Chief Kathy Lester said at a news conference. Lester said police officers were in the area and heard the gunshot. "We had a large crowd in the area. We don't know if it was part of a club or an event," Lester said. She said officers immediately responded and began providing medical aid to victims. In a statement Sunday afternoon, police said six people were fatally shot and another 12 were injured and taken to hospitals. Lester asked for the public's help in identifying the suspect or suspects involved in the shooting, saying no one was in custody. Pamela Harris of Sacramento told ABC News that her son, Sergio Harris, a married father of two daughters, was among those killed. She said she went to the scene of the shooting at about 2:30 a.m. after getting a call from someone who is not in law enforcement, informing her that her 38-year-old son was among those killed. "My son was a very vivacious young man, fun to be around, liked to party, have fun, smiling all the time, didn't bother people. For this to happen ... it's crazy," Harris told reporters at the scene. "I'm just to the point right now I don't know what to do. I don't even think this is real. I feel like it's a dream." President Joe Biden released a statement Sunday night, condemning the shootings and calling on Congress to pass measures to combat gun violence. "Today, America once again mourns for another community devastated by gun violence," Biden said in a statement. "Families forever changed. Survivors left to heal wounds both visible and invisible." "Ban ghost guns. Require background checks for all gun sales. Ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. Repeal gun manufacturers’ immunity from liability," Biden's statement continued. "Pass my budget proposal, which would give cities more of the funding they need to fund the police and fund the crime prevention and intervention strategies that can make our cities safer." Community activist Berry Accius of Voice of the Youth said he arrived at the scene at about 2:30 a.m. after a city council member called him about the shooting. "It was just horrific," Accius told ABC affiliate station KXTV in Sacramento. "Just as soon as I walked up you saw a chaotic scene, police all over the place, victims with blood all over their bodies, folks screaming, folks crying, people going, 'Where is my brother?' Mothers crying and trying to identify who their child was." Video posted on Twitter showed people running through the street as the apparent sound of rapid gunfire could be heard in the background. "Please avoid the area as a large police presence will remain and the scene remains active," police officials said in a statement. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said it is assisting the Sacramento Police Department in the investigation. Sacramento police asked anyone in the area at the time of the shooting to submit to investigators any photos and video, or other evidence linked to the violence. Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg condemned the shooting during a news conference Sunday afternoon in downtown Sacramento. "This is a senseless and unacceptable tragedy. And I emphasize the word unacceptable," Steinberg said. "Thoughts and prayers are not nearly enough. We must do more as a city as a state and as a nation. This senseless epidemic of gun violence must be addressed. How many unending tragedies does it take before we begin to cure the sickness in this country? Let us be honest, this is a sickness." California Gov. Gavin Newsom and his wife, Jennifer, issued a statement, saying he was monitoring the shooting and that his administration is working closely with law enforcement. "Sadly, we once again mourn the lives lost and for those injured in yet another horrendous act of gun violence. Jennifer and I send our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends, and to the wider community impacted by this terrible tragedy," Newsom's statement reads. "What we do know at this point is that another mass casualty shooting has occurred, leaving families with lost loved ones, multiple individuals injured and a community in grief. The scourge of gun violence continues to be a crisis in our country, and we must resolve to bring an end to this carnage." ABC News' Matthew Fuhrman, Julia Jacobo and Nick Kerr contributed to this report.

